BOOK IV.--NORFOLK ISLAND.  1846.




CHAPTER I.

EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH.



Bathurst, February 11th, 1846.

In turning over the pages of my journal, to note the good fortune
that has just happened to me, I am struck by the utter desolation of my life
for the last seven years.

Can it be possible that I, James North, the college-hero, the poet,
the prizeman, the Heaven knows what else, have been content to live on
at this dreary spot--an animal, eating and drinking, for tomorrow I die?
Yet it has been so.  My world, that world of which I once dreamt so much,
has been--here.  My fame--which was to reach the ends of the earth--
has penetrated to the neighbouring stations.  I am considered a "good preacher"
by my sheep-feeding friends.  It is kind of them.

Yet, on the eve of leaving it, I confess that this solitary life
has not been without its charms.  I have had my books and my thoughts--
though at times the latter were but grim companions.  I have striven
with my familiar sin, and have not always been worsted.  Melancholy reflection.
"Not always!"  "But yet" is as a gaoler to bring forth some monstrous
malefactor.  I vowed, however, that I would not cheat myself in this diary
of mine, and I will not.  No evasions, no glossings over of my own sins.
This journal is my confessor, and I bare my heart to it.

It is curious the pleasure I feel in setting down here in black and white
these agonies and secret cravings of which I dare not speak.
It is for the same reason, I suppose, that murderers make confession
to dogs and cats, that people with something "on their mind" are given
to thinking aloud, that the queen of Midas must needs whisper to the sedges
the secret of her husband's infirmity.  Outwardly I am a man of God,
pious and grave and softly spoken.  Inwardly--what?  The mean, cowardly,
weak sinner that this book knows me...Imp! I could tear you
in pieces!...One of these days I will.  In the meantime, I will keep you
under lock and key, and you shall hug my secrets close.  No, old friend,
with whom I have communed so long, forgive me, forgive me.
You are to me instead of wife or priest.  I tell to your cold blue pages--
how much was it I bought you for in Parramatta, rascal?--these stories,
longings, remorses, which I would fain tell to human ear could I find
a human being as discreet as thou.  It has been said that a man
dare not write all his thoughts and deeds; the words would blister the paper.
Yet your sheets are smooth enough, you fat rogue! Our neighbours of Rome
know human nature.  A man must confess.  One reads of wretches
who have carried secrets in their bosoms for years, and blurted them forth
at last.  I, shut up here without companionship, without sympathy,
without letters, cannot lock up my soul, and feed on my own thoughts.
They will out, and so I whisper them to thee.

What art thou, thou tremendous power
Who dost inhabit us without our leave,
And art, within ourselves, another self,
A master self that loves to domineer?

What?  Conscience?  That is a word to frighten children.  The conscience
of each man is of his own making.  My friend the shark-toothed cannibal
whom Staples brought in his whaler to Sydney would have found
his conscience reproach him sorely did he refuse to partake
of the feasts made sacred by the customs of his ancestors A spark of divinity?
The divinity that, according to received doctrine; sits apart,
enthroned amid sweet music, and leaves poor humanity to earn its condemnation
as it may?  I'll have none of that--though I preach it.  One must soothe
the vulgar senses of the people Priesthood has its "pious frauds".
The Master spoke in parables.  Wit?  The wit that sees how ill-balanced
are our actions and our aspirations?  The devilish wit born of our own brain,
that sneers at us for our own failings?  Perhaps madness? More likely,
for there are few men who are not mad one hour of the waking twelve.
If differing from the judgment of the majority of mankind in regard to
familiar things be madness, I suppose I am mad--or too wise.
The speculation draws near to hair-splitting.  James North, recall
your early recklessness, your ruin, and your redemption; bring your mind back
to earth.  Circumstances have made you what you are, and will shape
your destiny for you without your interference.  That's comfortably settled!

Now supposing--to take another canter on my night-mare--that man
is the slave of circumstances (a doctrine which I am inclined to believe,
though unwilling to confess); what circumstance can have brought about
the sudden awakening of the powers that be to James North's fitness for duty?


HOBART TOWN, Jan. 12th.

"DEAR NORTH,--I have much pleasure in informing you
that you can be appointed Protestant chaplain at
Norfolk Island, if you like.  It seems that they did
not get on well with the last man, and when my advic
was asked, I at once recommended you for the office.
The pay is small, but you have a house and so on.
It is certainly better than Bathurst, and indeed is
considered rather a prize in the clerical lottery.

"There is to be an investigation into affairs down
there.  Poor old Pratt--who went down, as you know,
at the earnest solicitation of the Government--seems
to have become absurdly lenient with the prisoners,
and it is reported that the island is in a frightful
state.  Sir Eardley is looking out for some
disciplinarian to take the place in hand.

"In the meantime, the chaplaincy is vacant, and I
thought of you." 


I must consider this seeming good fortune further.

February 19th.--I accept.  There is work to be done among those unhappy men
that may be my purgation.  The authorities shall hear me yet--though inquiry
was stifled at Port Arthur.  By the way, a Pharaoh had arisen who knows
not Joseph.  It is evident that the meddlesome parson, who complained
of men being flogged to death, is forgotten, as the men are!  How many ghosts
must haunt the dismal loneliness of that prison shore!  Poor Burgess is gone
the way of all flesh.  I wonder if his spirit revisits the scenes
of its violences?  I have written "poor" Burgess.

It is strange how we pity a man gone out of this life.  Enmity is extinguished
when one can but remember injuries.  If a man had injured me,
the fact of his living at all would be sufficient grounds for me to hate him;
if I had injured him, I should hate him still more.  Is that the reason
I hate myself at times--my greatest enemy, and one whom I have injured
beyond forgiveness?  There are offences against one's own nature
that are not to be forgiven.  Isn't it Tacitus who says "the hatred of those
most nearly related is most inveterate"?  But--I am taking flight again.

February 27th, 11.30 p.m.--Nine Creeks Station.  I do like to be accurate
in names, dates, etc.  Accuracy is a virtue.  To exercise it, then.
Station ninety miles from Bathurst.  I should say about 4,000 head of cattle.
Luxury without refinement.  Plenty to eat, drink, and read.
Hostess's name--Carr.  She is a well-preserved creature, about thirty-four
years of age, and a clever woman--not in a poetical sense, but in the widest
worldly acceptation of the term.  At the same time, I should be sorry
to be her husband.  Women have no business with a brain like hers--that is,
if they wish to be women and not sexual monsters.  Mrs. Carr is not a lady,
though she might have been one.  I don't think she is a good woman either.
It is possible, indeed, that she has known the factory before now.
There is a mystery about her, for I was informed that she was a Mrs. Purfoy,
the widow of a whaling captain, and had married one of her assigned servants,
who had deserted her five years ago, as soon as he obtained his freedom.
A word or two at dinner set me thinking.  She had received some English papers,
and, accounting for her pre-occupied manner, grimly said,
"I think I have news of my husband." I should not like to be in Carr's shoes
if she has news of him! I don't think she would suffer indignity calmly.
After all, what business is it of mine?  I was beguiled into taking
more wine at dinner than I needed.  Confessor, do you hear me?
But I will not allow myself to be carried away.  You grin, you fat Familiar!
So may I, but I shall be eaten with remorse tomorrow.

March 3rd.--A place called Jerrilang, where I have a head and heartache.
"One that hath let go himself from the hold and stay of reason,
and lies open to the mercy of all temptations."

March 20th.--Sydney.  At Captain Frere's.--Seventeen days since I have
opened you, beloved and detested companion of mine.  I have more than half
a mind to never open you again!  To read you is to recall to myself
all I would most willingly forget; yet not to read you would be to forget
all that which I should for my sins remember.

The last week has made a new man of me.  I am no longer morose,
despairing, and bitter, but genial, and on good terms with fortune.
It is strange that accident should have induced me to stay a week
under the same roof with that vision of brightness which has haunted me
so long.  A meeting in the street, an introduction, an invitation--
the thing is done.

The circumstances which form our fortunes are certainly curious things.
I had thought never again to meet the bright young face to which I felt
so strange an attraction--and lo! here it is smiling on me daily.
Captain Frere should be a happy man.  Yet there is a skeleton
in this house also.  That young wife, by nature so lovable and so mirthful,
ought not to have the sadness on her face that twice to-day has clouded it.
He seems a passionate and boorish creature, this wonderful convict
disciplinarian.  His convicts--poor devils--are doubtless disciplined enough.
Charming little Sylvia, with your quaint wit and weird beauty,
he is not good enough for you--and yet it was a love match.

March 21st.--I have read family prayers every night since I have been here--
my black coat and white tie gave me the natural pre-eminence in such matters--
and I feel guilty every time I read.  I wonder what the little lady
of the devotional eyes would say if she knew that I am a miserable hypocrite,
preaching that which I do not practise, exhorting others to believe
those marvels which I do not believe?  I am a coward not to throw off
the saintly mask, and appear as a Freethinker.  Yet, am I a coward?
I urge upon myself that it is for the glory of God I hold my peace.
The scandal of a priest turned infidel would do more harm than the reign
of reason would do good.  Imagine this trustful woman for instance--
she would suffer anguish at the thoughts of such a sin, though another
were the sinner.  "If anyone offend one of these little ones it were better
for him that a millstone be hanged about his neck and that he be cast
into the sea." Yet truth is truth, and should be spoken--should it not,
malignant monitor, who remindest me how often I fail to speak it?
Surely among all his army of black-coats our worthy Bishop
must have some men like me, who cannot bring their reason to believe
in things contrary to the experience of mankind and the laws of nature.

March 22nd.--This unromantic Captain Frere had had some romantic incidents
in his life, and he is fond of dilating upon them.  It seems that
in early life he expected to have been left a large fortune by an uncle
who had quarrelled with his heir.  But the uncle dies on the day fixed
for the altering of the will, the son disappears, and is thought to be drowned.
The widow, however, steadfastly refuses to believe in any report
of the young man's death, and having a life-interest in the property,
holds it against all comers.  My poor host in consequence comes out here
on his pay, and, three years ago, just as he is hoping that the death
of his aunt may give him opportunity to enforce a claim as next of kin
to some portion of the property, the long-lost son returns,
is recognized by his mother and the trustees, and installed in due heirship!
The other romantic story is connected with Frere's marriage.
He told me after dinner to-night how his wife had been wrecked when a child,
and how he had saved her life, and defended her from the rude hands
of an escaped convict--one of the monsters our monstrous system breeds.
"That was how we fell in love," said he, tossing off his wine complacently.

"An auspicious opportunity," said I.  To which he nodded.  He is not
overburdened with brains, I fancy.  Let me see if I can set down some account
of this lovely place and its people.

A long low white house, surrounded by a blooming garden.  Wide windows
opening on a lawn.  The ever glorious, ever changing sea beneath.
It is evening.  I am talking with Mrs. Frere, of theories of social reform,
of picture galleries, of sunsets, and new books.  There comes a sound
of wheels on the gravel.  It is the magistrate returned from
his convict-discipline.  We hear him come briskly up the steps,
but we go on talking.  (I fancy there was a time when the lady
would have run to meet him.) He enters, coldly kisses his wife,
and disturbs at once the current of our thoughts.  "It has been hot to-day.
What, still no letter from head-quarters, Mr. North! I saw Mrs. Golightly
in town, Sylvia, and she asked for you.  There is to be a ball
at Government House.  We must go." Then he departs, and is heard
in the distance indistinctly cursing because the water is not hot enough,
or because Dawkins, his convict servant, has not brushed his trousers
sufficiently.  We resume our chat, but he returns all hungry, and bluff,
and whisker-brushed.  "Dinner.  Ha-ha! I'm ready for it.  North,
take Mrs. Frere." By and by it is, "North, some sherry?  Sylvia, the soup
is spoilt again.  Did you go out to-day? No?"  His eyebrows contract here,
and I know he says inwardly, "Reading some trashy novel, I suppose."
However, he grins, and obligingly relates how the police have captured
Cockatoo Bill, the noted bushranger.

After dinner the disciplinarian and I converse--of dogs and horses,
gamecocks, convicts, and moving accidents by flood and field.
I remember old college feats, and strive to keep pace with him
in the relation of athletics.  What hypocrites we are!--for all the time
I am longing to get to the drawing-room, and finish my criticism
of the new poet, Mr. Tennyson, to Mrs. Frere.  Frere does not read Tennyson--
nor anybody else.  Adjourned to the drawing-room, we chat--Mrs. Frere and I--
until supper.  (He eats supper.) She is a charming companion,
and when I talk my best--I can talk, you must admit, O Familiar--
her face lightens up with an interest I rarely see upon it at other times.
I feel cooled and soothed by this companionship.  The quiet refinement
of this house, after bullocks and Bathurst, is like the shadow of a great rock
in a weary land.

Mrs. Frere is about five-and-twenty.  She is rather beneath the middle height,
with a slight, girlish figure.  This girlish appearance is enhanced
by the fact that she has bright fair hair and blue eyes.  Upon conversation
with her, however, one sees that her face has lost much of the delicate
plumpness which it probably owned in youth.  She has had one child,
born only to die.  Her cheeks are thin, and her eyes have a tinge of sadness,
which speak of physical pain or mental grief.  This thinness of face
makes the eyes appear larger and the brow broader than they really are.
Her hands are white and painfully thin.  They must have been plump
and pretty once.  Her lips are red with perpetual fever.

Captain Frere seems to have absorbed all his wife's vitality.
(Who quotes the story of Lucius Claudius Hermippus, who lived to a great age
by being constantly breathed on by young girls?  I suppose Burton--
who quotes everything.) In proportion as she has lost her vigour and youth,
he has gained strength and heartiness.  Though he is at least forty years
of age, he does not look more than thirty.  His face is ruddy,
his eyes bright, his voice firm and ringing.  He must be a man
of considerable strength and--I should say--of more than ordinary
animal courage and animal appetite.  There is not a nerve in his body
which does not twang like a piano wire.  In appearance, he is tall, broad,
and bluff, with red whiskers and reddish hair slightly touched with grey.
His manner is loud, coarse, and imperious; his talk of dogs, horses,
and convicts.  What a strangely-mated pair!

March 30th.--A letter from Van Diemen's Land.  "There is a row in the pantry,"
said Frere, with his accustomed slang.  It seems that the Comptroller-General
of Convicts has appointed a Mr. Pounce to go down and make a report
on the state of Norfolk Island.  I am to go down with him,
and shall receive instructions to that effect from the Comptroller-General.
I have informed Frere of this, and he has written to Pounce to come
and stay on his way down.  There has been nothing but convict discipline
talked since.  Frere is great upon this point, and wearies me
with his explanations of convict tricks and wickedness.  He is celebrated
for his knowledge of such matters.  Detestable wisdom!  His servants hate him,
but they obey him without a murmur.  I have observed that
habitual criminals--like all savage beasts--cower before the man
who has once mastered them.  I should not be surprised if the
Van Diemen's Land Government selected Frere as their "disciplinarian".
I hope they won't and yet I hope they will.

April 4th.--Nothing worth recording until to-day.  Eating, drinking,
and sleeping.  Despite my forty-seven years, I begin to feel almost like
the James North who fought the bargee and took the gold medal.
What a drink water is! The fons Bandusiae splendidior vitreo was better
than all the Massic, Master Horace! I doubt if your celebrated liquor,
bottled when Manlius was consul, could compare with it.

But to my notable facts.  I have found out to-night two things
which surprise me.  One is that the convict who attempted the life
of Mrs. Frere is none other than the unhappy man whom my fatal weakness
caused to be flogged at Port Arthur, and whose face comes before me
to reproach me even now.  The other that Mrs. Carr is an old acquaintance
of Frere's.  The latter piece of information I obtained in a curious way.
One night, while Mrs. Frere was not there, we were talking of clever women.
I broached my theory, that strong intellect in women went far
to destroy their womanly nature.

"Desire in man," said I, "should be Volition in women: Reason, Intuition;
Reverence, Devotion; Passion, Love.  The woman should strike a lower key-note,
but a sharper sound.  Man has vigour of reason, woman quickness of feeling.
The woman who possesses masculine force of intellect is abnormal."
He did not half comprehend me, I could see, but he agreed with the broad view
of the case.  "I only knew one woman who was really 'strong-minded',
as they call it," he said, "and she was a regular bad one."

"It does not follow that she should be bad," said I.

"This one was, though--stock, lock, and barrel.  But as sharp as a needle,
sir, and as immovable as a rock.  A fine woman, too." I saw by the expression
of the man's face that he owned ugly memories, and pressed him further.
"She's up country somewhere," he said.  "Married her assigned servant,
I was told, a fellow named Carr.  I haven't seen her for years,
and don't know what she may be like now, but in the days when I knew her she
was just what you describe." (Let it be noted that I had described nothing.)
"She came out in the ship with me as maid to my wife's mother."

It was on the tip of my tongue to say that I had met her, but I don't know
what induced me to be silent.  There are passages in the lives of men
of Captain Frere's complexion, which don't bear descanting on.
I expect there have been in this case, for he changed the subject abruptly,
as his wife came in.  Is it possible that these two creatures--
the notable disciplinarian and the wife of the assigned servant--
could have been more than friends in youth?  Quite possible.  He is the sort
of man for gross amours.  (A pretty way I am abusing my host!)
And the supple woman with the dark eyes would have been just the creature
to enthral him.  Perhaps some such story as this may account in part
for Mrs. Frere's sad looks.  Why do I speculate on such things?  I seem
to do violence to myself and to insult her by writing such suspicions.
If I was a Flagellant now, I would don hairshirt and up flail.
"For this sort cometh not out but by prayer and fasting."

April 7th.--Mr. Pounce has arrived--full of the importance of his mission.
He walks with the air of a minister of state on the eve of a vacant garter,
hoping, wondering, fearing, and dignified even in his dubitancy.
I am as flippant as a school-girl concerning this fatuous official,
and yet--Heaven knows--I feel deeply enough the importance of the task
he has before him.  One relieves one's brain by these whirlings
of one's mental limbs.  I remember that a prisoner at Hobart Town,
twice condemned and twice reprieved, jumped and shouted with frenzied vehemence
when he heard his sentence of death was finally pronounced.  He told me,
if he had not so shouted, he believed he would have gone mad.

April 10th.--We had a state dinner last night.  The conversation
was about nothing in the world but convicts.  I never saw Mrs. Frere
to less advantage.  Silent, distraite, and sad.  She told me after dinner
that she disliked the very name of "convict" from early associations.
"I have lived among them all my life," she said, "but that does not
make it the better for me.  I have terrible fancies at times, Mr. North,
that seem half-memories.  I dread to be brought in contact
with prisoners again.  I am sure that some evil awaits me at their hands."

I laughed, of course, but it would not do.  She holds to her own opinion, and
looks at me with horror in her eyes.  This terror in her face is perplexing.

"You are nervous," I said.  "You want rest."

"I am nervous," she replied, with that candour of voice and manner
I have before remarked in her, "and I have presentiments of evil."

We sat silent for a while, and then she suddenly turned her large eyes on me,
and said calmly, "Mr. North, what death shall I die?"  The question
was an echo of my own thoughts--I have some foolish (?) fancies
as to physiognomy--and it made me start.  What death, indeed?
What sort of death would one meet with widely-opened eyes, parted lips,
and brows bent as though to rally fast-flying courage?  Not a peaceful death
surely.  I brought my black coat to my aid.  "My dear lady, you must not think
of such things.  Death is but a sleep, you know.  Why anticipate a nightmare?"

She sighed, slowly awaking as though from some momentary trance.
Checking herself on the verge of tears, she rallied, turned the conversation,
and finding an excuse for going to the piano, dashed into a waltz.
This unnatural gaiety ended, I fancy, in an hysterical fit. I heard
her husband afterwards recommending sal volatile.  He is the sort of man
who would recommend sal volatile to the Pythoness if she consulted him.

April 26th.--All has been arranged, and we start to-morrow.  Mr. Pounce
is in a condition of painful dignity.  He seems afraid to move
lest motion should thaw his official ice.  Having found out that I am
the "chaplain", he has refrained from familiarity.  My self-love is wounded,
but my patience relieved.  Query: Would not the majority of mankind
rather be bored by people in authority than not noticed by them?
James North declines to answer for his part.  I have made my farewells
to my friends, and on looking back on the pleasant hours I have spent,
felt saddened.  It is not likely that I shall have many such pleasant hours.
I feel like a vagabond who, having been allowed to sit by a cheerful fireside
for a while, is turned out into the wet and windy streets, and finds them
colder than ever.  What were the lines I wrote in her album?


"As some poor tavern-haunter drenched in wine
With staggering footsteps through the streets returning,
Seeing through blinding rain a beacon shine
From household lamp in happy window burning,--

"Pauses an instant at the reddened pane
To gaze on that sweet scene of love and duty,
Then turns into the wild wet night again,
Lest his sad presence mar its homely beauty."


Yes, those were the lines.  With more of truth in them than she expected;
and yet what business have I sentimentalizing.  My socius thinks
"what a puling fool this North is!"

So, that's over! Now for Norfolk Island and my purgation.




CHAPTER II.

THE LOST HEIR.



The lost son of Sir Richard Devine had returned to England, and made claim
to his name and fortune.  In other words, John Rex had successfully carried out
the scheme by which he had usurped the rights of his old convict-comrade.

Smoking his cigar in his bachelor lodgings, or pausing in a calculation
concerning a race, John Rex often wondered at the strange ease
with which he had carried out so monstrous and seemingly difficult
an imposture.  After he was landed in Sydney, by the vessel which Sarah Purfoy
had sent to save him, he found himself a slave to a bondage
scarcely less galling than that from which he had escaped--the bondage
of enforced companionship with an unloved woman.  The opportune death
of one of her assigned servants enabled Sarah Purfoy to instal
the escaped convict in his room.  In the strange state of society
which prevailed of necessity in New South Wales at that period,
it was not unusual for assigned servants to marry among the free settlers,
and when it was heard that Mrs. Purfoy, the widow of a whaling captain,
had married John Carr, her storekeeper, transported for embezzlement,
and with two years of his sentence yet to run, no one expressed surprise.
Indeed, when the year after, John Carr blossomed into an "expiree",
master of a fine wife and a fine fortune, there were many about him
who would have made his existence in Australia pleasant enough.
But John Rex had no notion of remaining longer than he could help,
and ceaselessly sought means of escape from this second prison-house.
For a long time his search was unsuccessful.  Much as she loved the scoundrel,
Sarah Purfoy did not scruple to tell him that she had bought him
and regarded him as her property.  He knew that if he made any attempt
to escape from his marriage-bonds, the woman who had risked so much
to save him would not hesitate to deliver him over to the authorities,
and state how the opportune death of John Carr had enabled her to give name
and employment to John Rex, the absconder.  He had thought once
that the fact of her being his wife would prevent her from giving evidence
against him, and that he could thus defy her.  But she reminded him
that a word to Blunt would be all sufficient.

"I know you don't care for me now, John," she said, with grim complacency;
"but your life is in my hands, and if you desert me I will
bring you to the gallows."

In vain, in his secret eagerness to be rid of her, he raged and chafed.
He was tied hand and foot.  She held his money, and her shrewd wit
had more than doubled it.  She was all-powerful, and he could but wait
until her death or some lucky accident should rid him of her,
and leave him free to follow out the scheme he had matured.
"Once rid of her," he thought, in his solitary rides over the station
of which he was the nominal owner, "the rest is easy.  I shall return
to England with a plausible story of shipwreck, and shall doubtless
be received with open arms by the dear mother from whom I have been
so long parted.  Richard Devine shall have his own again."

To be rid of her was not so easy.  Twice he tried to escape from his thraldom,
and was twice brought back.  "I have bought you, John," his partner
had laughed, "and you don't get away from me.  Surely you can be content
with these comforts.  You were content with less once.  I am not
so ugly and repulsive, am I?"

"I am home-sick," John Carr retorted.  "Let us go to England, Sarah."

She tapped her strong white fingers sharply on the table.  "Go to England?
No, no.  That is what you would like to do.  You would be master there.
You would take my money, and leave me to starve.  I know you, Jack.
We stop here, dear.  Here, where I can hand you over to the first trooper
as an escaped convict if you are not kind to me."

"She-devil!"

"Oh, I don't mind your abuse.  Abuse me if you like, Jack.  Beat me
if you will, but don't leave me, or it will be worse for you."

"You are a strange woman!" he cried, in sudden petulant admiration.

"To love such a villain? I don't know that.  I love you because
you are a villain.  A better man would be wearisome to such as I am."

"I wish to Heaven I'd never left Port Arthur.  Better there
than this dog's life."

"Go back, then.  You have only to say the word!" And so they would wrangle,
she glorying in her power over the man who had so long triumphed over her,
and he consoling himself with the hope that the day was not far distant
which should bring him at once freedom and fortune.  One day the chance came
to him.  His wife was ill, and the ungrateful scoundrel stole
five hundred pounds, and taking two horses reached Sydney,
and obtained passage in a vessel bound for Rio.

Having escaped thraldom, John Rex proceeded to play for the great stake
of his life with the utmost caution.  He went to the Continent,
and lived for weeks together in the towns where Richard Devine
might possibly have resided, familiarizing himself with streets,
making the acquaintance of old inhabitants, drawing into his own hands
all loose ends of information which could help to knit the meshes of his net
the closer.  Such loose ends were not numerous; the prodigal had been too poor,
too insignificant, to leave strong memories behind him.  Yet Rex knew well
by what strange accidents the deceit of an assumed identity
is often penetrated.  Some old comrade or companion of the lost heir
might suddenly appear with keen questions as to trifles which could cut
his flimsy web to shreds, as easily as the sword of Saladin divided
the floating silk.  He could not afford to ignore the most insignificant
circumstances.  With consummate skill, piece by piece he built up
the story which was to deceive the poor mother, and to make him possessor
of one of the largest private fortunes in England.

This was the tale he hit upon.  He had been saved from the burning Hydaspes
by a vessel bound for Rio.  Ignorant of the death of Sir Richard,
and prompted by the pride which was known to be a leading feature
of his character, he had determined not to return until fortune
should have bestowed upon him wealth at least equal to the inheritance
from which he had been ousted.  In Spanish America he had striven
to accumulate that wealth in vain.  As vequero, traveller, speculator,
sailor, he had toiled for fourteen years, and had failed.  Worn out
and penitent, he had returned home to find a corner of English earth
in which to lay his weary bones.  The tale was plausible enough,
and in the telling of it he was armed at all points.  There was little fear
that the navigator of the captured Osprey, the man who had lived in Chile
and "cut out" cattle on the Carrum Plains, would prove lacking in knowledge
of riding, seamanship, or Spanish customs.  Moreover, he had determined upon
a course of action which showed his knowledge of human nature.

The will under which Richard Devine inherited was dated in 1807,
and had been made when the testator was in the first hopeful glow
of paternity.  By its terms Lady Devine was to receive a life interest
of three thousand a year in her husband's property--which was placed
in the hands of two trustees--until her eldest son died or attained the age
of twenty-five years.  When either of these events should occur,
the property was to be realized, Lady Devine receiving a sum
of a hundred thousand pounds, which, invested in Consols for her benefit,
would, according to Sir Richard's prudent calculation exactly compensate
for her loss of interest, the remainder going absolutely to the son,
if living, to his children or next of kin if dead.  The trustees appointed
were Lady Devine's father, Colonel Wotton Wade, and Mr. Silas Quaid,
of the firm of Purkiss and Quaid Thavies Inn, Sir Richard's solicitors.
Colonel Wade, before his death had appointed his son, Mr. Francis Wade,
to act in his stead.  When Mr. Quaid died, the firm of Purkiss and Quaid
(represented in the Quaid branch of it by a smart London-bred nephew)
declined further responsibility; and, with the consent of Lady Devine,
Francis Wade continued alone in his trust.  Sir Richard's sister
and her husband, Anthony Frere, of Bristol, were long ago dead,
and, as we know, their representative, Maurice Frere, content at last
in the lot that fortune had sent him, had given up all thought of meddling
with his uncle's business.  John Rex, therefore, in the person
of the returned Richard, had but two persons to satisfy, his putative uncle,
Mr. Francis Wade, and his putative mother, Lady Devine.

This he found to be the easiest task possible.  Francis Wade was an invalid
virtuoso, who detested business, and whose ambition was to be known
as man of taste.  The possessor of a small independent income,
he had resided at North End ever since his father's death, and had made
the place a miniature Strawberry Hill.  When, at his sister's urgent wish,
he assumed the sole responsibility of the estate, he put all
the floating capital into 3 per cents., and was content to see
the interest accumulate.  Lady Devine had never recovered the shock
of the circumstances attending Sir Richard's death and, clinging to the belief
in her son's existence, regarded herself as the mere guardian of his interests,
to be displaced at any moment by his sudden return.  The retired pair
lived thus together, and spent in charity and bric-a-brac about a fourth
of their mutual income.  By both of them the return of the wanderer
was hailed with delight.  To Lady Devine it meant the realization
of a lifelong hope, become part of her nature.  To Francis Wade
it meant relief from a responsibility which his simplicity always secretly
loathed, the responsibility of looking after another person's money.

"I shall not think of interfering with the arrangements which you have made,
my dear uncle," said Mr. John Rex, on the first night of his reception.
"It would be most ungrateful of me to do so.  My wants are very few,
and can easily be supplied.  I will see your lawyers some day, and settle it."

"See them at once, Richard; see them at once.  I am no man of business,
you know, but I think you will find all right."

Richard, however, put off the visit from day to day.  He desired to have
as little to do with lawyers as possible.  He had resolved upon his course
of action.  He would get money from his mother for immediate needs,
and when that mother died he would assert his rights.  "My rough life
has unfitted me for drawing-rooms, dear mother," he said.  "Do not let there
be a display about my return.  Give me a corner to smoke my pipe,
and I am happy."  Lady Devine, with a loving tender pity, for which John Rex
could not altogether account, consented, and "Mr. Richard" soon came
to be regarded as a martyr to circumstances, a man conscious
of his own imperfections, and one whose imperfections were therefore
lightly dwelt upon.  So the returned prodigal had his own suite of rooms,
his own servants, his own bank account, drank, smoked, and was merry.
For five or six months he thought himself in Paradise.  Then he began
to find his life insufferably weary.  The burden of hypocrisy is very heavy
to bear, and Rex was compelled perpetually to bear it.  His mother demanded
all his time.  She hung upon his lips; she made him repeat fifty times
the story of his wanderings.  She was never tired of kissing him, of weeping
over him, and of thanking him for the "sacrifice" he had made for her.

"We promised never to speak of it more, Richard," the poor lady said one day,
"but if my lifelong love can make atonement for the wrong I have done you--"

"Hush, dearest mother," said John Rex, who did not in the least comprehend
what it was all about.  "Let us say no more."

Lady Devine wept quietly for a while, and then went away, leaving the man
who pretended to be her son much bewildered and a little frightened.
There was a secret which he had not fathomed between Lady Devine and her son.
The mother did not again refer to it, and, gaining courage as the days went on,
Rex grew bold enough to forget his fears.  In the first stages
of his deception he had been timid and cautious.  Then the soothing influence
of comfort, respect, and security came upon him, and almost refined him.
He began to feel as he had felt when Mr. Lionel Crofton was alive.
The sensation of being ministered to by a loving woman, who kissed him
night and morning, calling him "son"--of being regarded with admiration
by rustics, with envy by respectable folk--of being deferred to
in all things--was novel and pleasing.  They were so good to him
that he felt at times inclined to confess all, and leave his case
in the hands of the folk he had injured.  Yet--he thought--such a course
would be absurd.  It would result in no benefit to anyone, simply in misery
to himself.  The true Richard Devine was buried fathoms deep
in the greedy ocean of convict-discipline, and the waves of innumerable
punishments washed over him.  John Rex flattered himself that he had usurped
the name of one who was in fact no living man, and that, unless
one should rise from the dead, Richard Devine could never return to accuse him.
So flattering himself, he gradually became bolder, and by slow degrees
suffered his true nature to appear.  He was violent to the servants,
cruel to dogs and horses, often wantonly coarse in speech,
and brutally regardless of the feelings of others.  Governed, like most women,
solely by her feelings, Lady Devine had at first been prodigal
of her affection to the man she believed to be her injured son.
But his rash acts of selfishness, his habits of grossness and self-indulgence,
gradually disgusted her.  For some time she--poor woman--fought against
this feeling, endeavouring to overcome her instincts of distaste,
and arguing with herself that to permit a detestation of her unfortunate son
to arise in her heart was almost criminal; but she was at length
forced to succumb.

For the first year Mr. Richard conducted himself with great propriety,
but as his circle of acquaintance and his confidence in himself increased,
he now and then forgot the part he was playing.  One day Mr. Richard went
to pass the day with a sporting friend, only too proud to see at his table
so wealthy and wonderful a man.  Mr. Richard drank a good deal more
than was good for him, and returned home in a condition of disgusting
drunkenness.  I say disgusting, because some folks have the art
of getting drunk after a humorous fashion, that robs intoxication
of half its grossness.  For John Rex to be drunk was to be himself--coarse
and cruel.  Francis Wade was away, and Lady Devine had retired for the night,
when the dog-cart brought home "Mr. Richard".  The virtuous butler-porter,
who opened the door, received a blow in the chest and a demand for "Brandy!"
The groom was cursed, and ordered to instant oblivion.  Mr. Richard stumbled
into the dining-room--veiled in dim light as a dining-room
which was "sitting up" for its master ought to be--and ordered "more candles!"
The candles were brought, after some delay, and Mr. Richard amused himself
by spilling their meltings upon the carpet.  "Let's have 'luminashon!"
he cried; and climbing with muddy boots upon the costly chairs,
scraping with his feet the polished table, attempted to fix the wax
in the silver sconces, with which the antiquarian tastes of Mr. Francis Wade
had adorned the room.

"You'll break the table, sir," said the servant.

"Damn the table!" said Rex.  "Buy 'nother table.  What's table t'you?"
"Oh, certainly, sir," replied the man.

"Oh, c'ert'nly! Why c'ert'nly?  What do you know about it?"

"Oh, certainly not, sir," replied the man.

"If I had--stockwhip here--I'd make you--hic--skip! Whar's brandy?"

"Here, Mr. Richard."

"Have some! Good brandy! Send for servantsh and have dance.
D'you dance, Tomkins?"

"No, Mr. Richard."

"Then you shall dance now, Tomkins.  You'll dance upon nothing one day,
Tomkins! Here! Halloo! Mary! Susan! Janet! William! Hey! Halloo!"
And he began to shout and blaspheme.

"Don't you think it's time for bed, Mr. Richard?" one of the men
ventured to suggest.

"No!" roared the ex-convict, emphatically, "I don't! I've gone to bed
at daylight far too long.  We'll have 'luminashon! I'm master here.
Master everything.  Richard 'Vine's my name.  Isn't it, Tomkins, you villain?"

"Oh-h-h! Yes, Mr. Richard."

"Course it is, and make you know it too! I'm no painter-picture,
crockery chap.  I'm genelman! Genelman seen the world!  Knows what's what.
There ain't much I ain't fly to.  Wait till the old woman's dead, Tomkins,
and you shall see!" More swearing, and awful threats of what the inebriate
would do when he was in possession.  "Bring up some brandy!"  Crash goes
the bottle in the fire-place.  "Light up the droring-rooms; we'll have dance!
I'm drunk! What's that?  If you'd gone through what I have,
you'd be glad to be drunk.  I look a fool"--this to his image in another glass.
"I ain't though, or I wouldn't be here.  Curse you, you grinning idiot"--
crash goes his fist through the mirror--"don't grin at me.  Play up there!
Where's old woman?  Fetch her out and let's dance!"

"Lady Devine has gone to bed, Mr. Richard," cried Tomkins,
aghast, attempting to bar the passage to the upper regions.

"Then let's have her out o' bed," cried John Rex, plunging to the door.

Tomkins, attempting to restrain him, is instantly hurled into a cabinet
of rare china, and the drunken brute essays the stairs.  The other servants
seize him.  He curses and fights like a demon.  Doors bang open,
lights gleam, maids hover, horrified, asking if it's "fire?" and begging
for it to be "put out".  The whole house is in an uproar, in the midst of which
Lady Devine appears, and looks down upon the scene.  Rex catches sight of her;
and bursts into blasphemy.  She withdraws, strangely terrified;
and the animal, torn, bloody, and blasphemous, is at last got into
his own apartments, the groom, whose face had been seriously damaged
in the encounter, bestowing a hearty kick on the prostrate carcase at parting.

The next morning Lady Devine declined to see her son, though he sent
a special apology to her.

"I am afraid I was a little overcome by wine last night," said he to Tomkins.
"Well, you was, sir," said Tomkins.

"A very little wine makes me quite ill, Tomkins.  Did I do anything
very violent?"

"You was rather obstropolous, Mr. Richard."

"Here's a sovereign for you, Tomkins.  Did I say anything?"

"You cussed a good deal, Mr. Richard.  Most gents do when they've bin
--hum--dining out, Mr. Richard."

"What a fool I am," thought John Rex, as he dressed.  "I shall spoil
everything if I don't take care." He was right.  He was going the right way
to spoil everything.  However, for this bout he made amends- money soothed
the servants' hall, and apologies and time won Lady Devine's forgiveness.

"I cannot yet conform to English habits, my dear mother," said Rex,
"and feel at times out of place in your quiet home.  I think that--if you can
spare me a little money--I should like to travel."

Lady Devine--with a sense of relief for which she blamed herself--assented,
and supplied with letters of credit, John Rex went to Paris.

Fairly started in the world of dissipation and excess, he began
to grow reckless.  When a young man, he had been singularly free
from the vice of drunkenness; turning his sobriety--as he did all his virtues--
to vicious account; but he had learnt to drink deep in the loneliness
of the bush.  Master of a large sum of money, he had intended to spend it
as he would have spent it in his younger days.  He had forgotten
that since his death and burial the world had not grown younger.
It was possible that Mr. Lionel Crofton might have discovered some
of the old set of fools and knaves with whom he had once mixed.
Many of them were alive and flourishing.  Mr. Lemoine, for instance,
was respectably married in his native island of Jersey, and had already
threatened to disinherit a nephew who showed a tendency to dissipation.

But Mr. Lemoine would not care to recognize Mr. Lionel Crofton,
the gambler and rake, in his proper person, and it was not expedient
that his acquaintance should be made in the person of Richard Devine,
lest by some unlucky chance he should recognize the cheat.  Thus
poor Lionel Crofton was compelled to lie still in his grave,
and Mr. Richard Devine, trusting to a big beard and more burly figure
to keep his secret, was compelled to begin his friendship with Mr. Lionel's
whilom friends all over again.  In Paris and London there were plenty
of people ready to become hail-fellow-well-met with any gentleman
possessing money.  Mr. Richard Devine's history was whispered in many a boudoir
and club-room.  The history, however, was not always told in the same way.
It was generally known that Lady Devine had a son, who, being supposed
to be dead, had suddenly returned, to the confusion of his family.
But the manner of his return was told in many ways.

In the first place, Mr. Francis Wade, well-known though he was,
did not move in that brilliant circle which had lately received his nephew.
There are in England many men of fortune, as large as that left
by the old ship-builder, who are positively unknown in that little world
which is supposed to contain all the men worth knowing.  Francis Wade
was a man of mark in his own coterie.  Among artists, bric-a-brac sellers,
antiquarians, and men of letters he was known as a patron and man of taste.
His bankers and his lawyers knew him to be of independent fortune,
but as he neither mixed in politics, "went into society", betted,
or speculated in merchandise, there were several large sections
of the community who had never heard his name.  Many respectable money-lenders
would have required "further information" before they would discount
his bills; and "clubmen" in general--save, perhaps, those ancient quidnuncs
who know everybody, from Adam downwards--had but little acquaintance with him.
The advent of Mr. Richard Devine--a coarse person of unlimited means--
had therefore chief influence upon that sinister circle of male
and female rogues who form the "half-world".  They began to inquire
concerning his antecedents, and, failing satisfactory information,
to invent lies concerning him.  It was generally believed that he was
a black sheep, a man whose family kept him out of the way, but who was,
in a pecuniary sense, "good" for a considerable sum.

Thus taken upon trust, Mr. Richard Devine mixed in the very best
of bad society, and had no lack of agreeable friends to help him
to spend money.  So admirably did he spend it, that Francis Wade became
at last alarmed at the frequent drafts, and urged his nephew to bring
his affairs to a final settlement.  Richard Devine--in Paris, Hamburg,
or London, or elsewhere--could never be got to attack business,
and Mr. Francis Wade grew more and more anxious.  The poor gentleman
positively became ill through the anxiety consequent upon his nephew's
dissipations.  "I wish, my dear Richard, that you would let me know
what to do," he wrote.  "I wish, my dear uncle, that you would do
what you think best," was his nephew's reply.

"Will you let Purkiss and Quaid look into the business?"
said the badgered Francis.

"I hate lawyers," said Richard.  "Do what you think right."

Mr. Wade began to repent of his too easy taking of matters in the beginning.
Not that he had a suspicion of Rex, but that he had remembered that Dick
was always a loose fish.  The even current of the dilettante's life
became disturbed.  He grew pale and hollow-eyed.  His digestion was impaired.
He ceased to take the interest in china which the importance of that article
demanded.  In a word, he grew despondent as to his fitness for his mission
in life.  Lady Ellinor saw a change in her brother.  He became morose,
peevish, excitable.  She went privately to the family doctor,
who shrugged his shoulders.  "There is no danger," said he, "if he is
kept quiet; keep him quiet, and he will live for years; but his father died
of heart disease, you know." Lady Ellinor, upon this, wrote a long letter
to Mr. Richard, who was at Paris, repeated the doctor's opinions,
and begged him to come over at once.  Mr. Richard replied that
some horse-racing matter of great importance occupied his attention,
but that he would be at his rooms in Clarges Street (he had long ago
established a town house) on the 14th, and would "go into matters".
"I have lost a good deal of money lately, my dear mother," said Mr. Richard,
"and the present will be a good opportunity to make a final settlement."
The fact was that John Rex, now three years in undisturbed possession,
considered that the moment had arrived for the execution of his grand coup--
the carrying off at one swoop of the whole of the fortune he had gambled for.




CHAPTER III.

EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH.



May 12th--landed to-day at Norfolk Island, and have been introduced to
my new abode, situated some eleven hundred miles from Sydney.
A solitary rock in the tropical ocean, the island seems, indeed, a fit place
of  banishment.  It is about seven miles long and four broad.
The most remarkable natural object is, of course, the Norfolk Island pine,
which rears its stately head a hundred feet above the surrounding forest.
The appearance of the place is very wild and beautiful, bringing to my mind
the description of the romantic islands of the Pacific, which old geographers
dwell upon so fondly.  Lemon, lime, and guava trees abound, also oranges,
grapes, figs, bananas, peaches, pomegranates, and pine-apples.
The climate just now is hot and muggy.  The approach to Kingstown--
as the barracks and huts are called--is properly difficult.  A long low reef--
probably originally a portion of the barren rocks of Nepean and Philip Islands,
which rise east and west of the settlement--fronts the bay and obstructs
the entrance of vessels.  We were landed in boats through an opening
in this reef, and our vessel stands on and off within signalling distance.
The surf washes almost against the walls of the military roadway that leads
to the barracks.  The social aspect of the place fills me with horror.
There seems neither discipline nor order.  On our way to the Commandant's house
we passed a low dilapidated building where men were grinding maize,
and at the sight of us they commenced whistling, hooting, and shouting,
using the most disgusting language.  Three warders were near, but no attempt
was made to check this unseemly exhibition.  May 14th.--I sit down to write
with as much reluctance as though I were about to relate my experience
of a journey through a sewer.  First to the prisoners' barracks,
which stand on an area of about three acres, surrounded by a lofty wall.
A road runs between this wall and the sea.  The barracks are
three storeys high, and hold seven hundred and ninety men (let me remark here
that there are more than two thousand men on the island).  There are
twenty-two wards in this place.  Each ward runs the depth of the building,
viz., eighteen feet, and in consequence is simply a funnel for hot or cold air
to blow through.  When the ward is filled, the men's heads lie under
the windows.  The largest ward contains a hundred men, the smallest fifteen.
They sleep in hammocks, slung close to each other as on board ship,
in two lines, with a passage down the centre.  There is a wardsman
to each ward.  He is selected by the prisoners, and is generally a man
of the worst character.  He is supposed to keep order, but of course
he never attempts to do so; indeed, as he is locked up in the ward
every night from six o'clock in the evening until sunrise, without light,
it is possible that he might get maltreated did he make himself obnoxious.

The barracks look upon the Barrack Square, which is filled with lounging
prisoners.  The windows of the hospital-ward also look upon Barrack Square,
and the prisoners are in constant communication with the patients.
The hospital is a low stone building, capable of containing about twenty men,
and faces the beach.  I placed my hands on the wall, and found it damp.
An ulcerous prisoner said the dampness was owing to the heavy surf
constantly rolling so close beneath the building.  There are two gaols,
the old and the new.  The old gaol stands near the sea, close to
the landing-place.  Outside it, at the door, is the Gallows.  I touched it
as I passed in.  This engine is the first thing which greets the eyes
of a newly-arrived prisoner.  The new gaol is barely completed,
is of pentagonal shape, and has eighteen radiating cells of a pattern
approved by some wiseacre in England, who thinks that to prevent a man
from seeing his fellowmen is not the way to drive him mad.  In the old gaol
are twenty-four prisoners, all heavily ironed, awaiting trial
by the visiting Commission, from Hobart Town.  Some of these poor ruffians,
having committed their offences just after the last sitting of the Commission,
have already been in gaol upwards of eleven months!

At six o'clock we saw the men mustered.  I read prayers before the muster,
and was surprised to find that some of the prisoners attended,
while some strolled about the yard, whistling, singing, and joking.
The muster is a farce.  The prisoners are not mustered outside
and then marched to their wards, but they rush into the barracks
indiscriminately, and place themselves dressed or undressed in their hammocks.
A convict sub-overseer then calls out the names, and somebody replies.
If an answer is returned to each name, all is considered right.  The lights
are taken away, and save for a few minutes at eight o'clock,
when the good-conduct men are let in, the ruffians are left to their own
devices until morning.  Knowing what I know of the customs of the convicts,
my heart sickens when I in imagination put myself in the place
of a newly-transported man, plunged from six at night until daybreak
into that foetid den of worse than wild beasts.



May 15th.--There is a place enclosed between high walls adjoining
the convict barracks, called the Lumber Yard.  This is where
the prisoners mess.  It is roofed on two sides, and contains tables
and benches.  Six hundred men can mess here perhaps, but as seven hundred
are always driven into it, it follows that the weakest men are compelled
to sit on the ground.  A more disorderly sight than this yard at meal times
I never beheld.  The cook-houses are adjoining it, and the men bake
their meal-bread there.  Outside the cook-house door the firewood is piled,
and fires are made in all directions on the ground, round which
sit the prisoners, frying their rations of fresh pork, baking
their hominy cakes, chatting, and even smoking.

The Lumber Yard is a sort of Alsatia, to which the hunted prisoner retires.
I don't think the boldest constable on the island would venture
into that place to pick out a man from the seven hundred.  If he did go in
I don't think he would come out again alive.



May 16th.--A sub-overseer, a man named Hankey, has been talking to me.
He says that there are some forty of the oldest and worst prisoners
who form what he calls the "Ring", and that the members of this "Ring"
are bound by oath to support each other, and to avenge the punishment
of any of their number.  In proof of his assertions he instanced two cases
of English prisoners who had refused to join in some crime,
and had informed the Commandant of the proceedings of the Ring.
They were found in the morning strangled in their hammocks.
An inquiry was held, but not a man out of the ninety in the ward
would speak a word.  I dread the task that is before me.  How can I attempt
to preach piety and morality to these men? How can I attempt
even to save the less villainous?



May 17th.--Visited the wards to-day, and returned in despair.
The condition of things is worse than I expected.  It is not to be written.
The newly-arrived English prisoners--and some of their histories
are most touching--are insulted by the language and demeanour
of the hardened miscreants who are the refuse of Port Arthur
and Cockatoo Island.  The vilest crimes are perpetrated as jests.
These are creatures who openly defy authority, whose language and conduct
is such as was never before  seen or heard out of Bedlam.  There are men
who are known to have murdered their companions, and who boast of it.
With these the English farm labourer, the riotous and ignorant mechanic,
the victim of perjury or mistake, are indiscriminately herded.
With them are mixed Chinamen from Hong Kong, the Aborigines of New Holland,
West Indian blacks, Greeks, Caffres, and Malays, soldiers for desertion,
idiots, madmen, pig-stealers, and pick-pockets.  The dreadful place
seems set apart for all that is hideous and vile in our common nature.
In its recklessness, its insubordination, its filth, and its despair,
it realizes to my mind the popular notion of Hell.



May 21st.--Entered to-day officially upon my duties as Religious Instructor
at the Settlement.

An occurrence took place this morning which shows the dangerous condition
of the Ring.  I accompanied Mr. Pounce to the Lumber Yard, and, on our entry,
we observed a man in the crowd round the cook-house deliberately smoking.
The Chief Constable of the Island--my old friend Troke, of Port Arthur--
seeing that this exhibition attracted Pounce's notice, pointed out the man
to an assistant.  The assistant, Jacob Gimblett, advanced and desired
the prisoner to surrender the pipe.  The man plunged his hands
into his pockets, and, with a gesture of the most profound contempt,
walked away to that part of the mess-shed where the "Ring" congregate.

"Take the scoundrel to gaol!" cried Troke.

No one moved, but the man at the gate that leads through the carpenter's shop
into the barracks, called to us to come out, saying that the prisoners
would never suffer the man to be taken.  Pounce, however, with more
determination than I gave him credit for, kept his ground, and insisted
that so flagrant a breach of discipline should not be suffered
to pass unnoticed.  Thus urged, Mr. Troke pushed through the crowd,
and made for the spot whither the man had withdrawn himself.

The yard was buzzing like a disturbed hive, and I momentarily expected
that a rush would be made upon us.  In a few moments the prisoner appeared,
attended by, rather than in the custody of, the Chief Constable of the island.
He advanced to the unlucky assistant constable, who was standing close to me,
and asked, "What have you ordered me to gaol for?"  The man made some reply,
advising him to go quietly, when the convict  raised his fist
and deliberately felled the man to the ground.  "You had better retire,
gentlemen," said Troke.  "I see them getting out their knives."

We made for the gate, and the crowd closed in like a sea upon the two
constables.  I fully expected murder, but in a few moments Troke and Gimblett
appeared, borne along by a mass of men, dusty, but unharmed,
and having the convict between them.  He sulkily raised a hand as he passed me,
either to rectify the position of his straw hat, or to offer a tardy apology.
A more wanton, unprovoked, and flagrant outrage than that of which
this man was guilty I never witnessed.  It is customary for "the old dogs",
as the experienced convicts are called, to use the most opprobrious language
to their officers, and to this a deaf ear is usually turned,
but I never before saw a man wantonly strike a constable.  I fancy that
the act was done out of bravado.  Troke informed me that the man's name
is Rufus Dawes, and that he is the leader of the Ring, and considered
the worst man on the island; that to secure him he (Troke) was obliged
to use the language of expostulation; and that, but for the presenceof an
officer accredited by his Excellency, he dared not have acted as he had done.

This is the same man, then, whom I injured at Port Arthur.  Seven years
of "discipline" don't seem to have done him much good.  His sentence
is "life"--a lifetime in this place!  Troke says that he was the terror
of Port Arthur, and that they sent him here when a "weeding" of the prisoners
was made.  He has been here four years.  Poor wretch!



May 24th.--After prayers, I saw Dawes.  He was confined in the Old Gaol,
and seven others were in the cell with him.  He came out at my request,
and stood leaning against the door-post.  He was much changed from the man
I remember.  Seven years ago he was a stalwart, upright, handsome man.
He has become a beetle-browed, sullen, slouching ruffian.  His hair is grey,
though he cannot be more than forty years of age, and his frame has lost
that just proportion of parts which once made him almost graceful.
His face has also grown like other convict faces--how hideously alike
they all are!--and, save for his black eyes and a peculiar trick he had
of compressing his lips, I should not have recognized him.  How habitual sin
and misery suffice to brutalize "the human face divine"!  I said but  little,
for the other prisoners were listening, eager, as it appeared to me,
to witness my discomfiture.  It is evident that Rufus Dawes had been
accustomed to meet the ministrations of my predecessors with insolence.
I spoke to him for a few minutes, only saying how foolish it was
to rebel against an authority superior in strength to himself.
He did not answer, and the only emotion he evinced during the interview
was when I reminded him that we had met before.  He shrugged one shoulder,
as if in pain or anger, and seemed about to speak, but, casting his eyes
upon the group in the cell, relapsed into silence again.  I must get speech
with him alone.  One can do nothing with a man if seven other devils
worse than himself are locked up with him.

I sent for Hankey, and asked him about cells.  He says that the gaol
is crowded to suffocation.  "Solitary confinement" is a mere name.
There are six men, each sentenced to solitary confinement, in a cell together.
The cell is called the "nunnery".  It is small, and the six men were naked
to the waist when I entered, the perspiration pouring in streams
off their naked bodies! It is disgusting to write of such things.



June 26th.--Pounce has departed in the Lady Franklin for Hobart Town,
and it is rumoured that we are to have a new Commandant.  The Lady Franklin
is commanded by an old man named Blunt, a protege of Frere's, and a fellow
to whom I have taken one of my inexplicable and unreasoning dislikes.

Saw Rufus Dawes this morning.  He continues sullen and morose.  His papers
are very bad.  He is perpetually up for punishment.  I am informed
that he and a man named Eastwood, nicknamed "Jacky Jacky", glory in being
the leaders of the Ring, and that they openly avow themselves weary of life.
Can it be that the unmerited flogging which the poor creature got
at Port Arthur has aided, with other sufferings, to bring him to this
horrible state of mind?  It is quite possible.  Oh, James North,
remember your own crime, and pray Heaven to let you redeem one soul at least,
to plead for your own at the Judgment Seat.



June 30th.--I took a holiday this afternoon, and walked in the direction
of Mount Pitt.  The island lay at my feet like--as sings Mrs. Frere's
favourite poet--"a summer isle of  Eden lying in dark purple sphere of sea".
Sophocles has the same idea in the Philoctetes, but I can't quote it.
Note: I measured a pine twenty-three feet in circumference.  I followed
a little brook that runs from the hills, and winds through thick undergrowths
of creeper and blossom, until it reaches a lovely valley surrounded
by lofty trees, whose branches, linked together by the luxurious grape-vine,
form an arching bower of verdure.  Here stands the ruin of an old hut,
formerly inhabited by the early settlers; lemons, figs, and guavas are thick;
while amid the shrub and cane a large convolvulus is entwined,
and stars the green with its purple and crimson flowers.  I sat down here,
and had a smoke.  It seems that the former occupant of my rooms
at the settlement read French; for in searching for a book to bring with me--
I never walk without a book--I found and pocketed a volume of Balzac.
It proved to be a portion of the Vie Privee series, and I stumbled upon
a story called La Fausse Maitresse.  With calm belief in the Paris
of his imagination--where Marcas was a politician, Nucingen a banker,
Gobseck a money-lender, and Vautrin a candidate for some such place as this--
Balzac introduces me to a Pole by name Paz, who, loving the wife of his friend,
devotes himself to watch over her happiness and her husband's interest.
The husband gambles and is profligate.  Paz informs the wife that the leanness
which hazard and debauchery have caused to the domestic exchequer
is due to his extravagance, the husband having lent him money.
She does not believe, and Paz feigns an intrigue with a circus-rider
in order to lull all suspicions.  She says to her adored spouse,
"Get rid of this extravagant friend!  Away with him!  He is a profligate,
a gambler! A drunkard!" Paz finally departs, and when he has gone,
the lady finds out the poor Pole's worth.  The story does not end
satisfactorily.  Balzac was too great a master of his art for that.
In real life the curtain never falls on a comfortably-finished drama.
The play goes on eternally.

I have been thinking of the story all evening.  A man who loves his friend's
wife, and devotes his energies to increase her happiness by concealing
from her her husband's follies!  Surely none but Balzac would have hit upon
such a notion.  "A man who loves his friend's wife."--Asmodeus,
I write no more! I have ceased to converse with thee for so long
that I blush to confess all that I have in my heart.--I will not confess it,
so that shall suffice.  




CHAPTER IV.

EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV.JAMES NORTH.



August 24th.--There has been but one entry in my journal since the 30th June,
that which records the advent of our new Commandant, who, as I expected,
is Captain Maurice Frere.

So great have been the changes which have taken place that I scarcely know
how to record them.  Captain Frere has realized my worst anticipations.
He is brutal, vindictive, and domineering.  His knowledge of prisons
and prisoners gives him an advantage over Burgess, otherwise he much resembles
that murderous animal.  He has but one thought--to keep the prisoners
in subjection.  So long as the island is quiet, he cares not whether
the men live or die.  "I was sent down here to keep order," said he to me,
a few days after his arrival, "and by God, sir, I'll do it!"

He has done it, I must admit; but at a cost of a legacy of hatred to himself
that he may some day regret to have earned.  He has organized three parties
of police.  One patrols the fields, one is on guard at stores
and public buildings, and the third is employed as a detective force.
There are two hundred soldiers on the island.  And the officer in charge,
Captain McNab, has been induced by Frere to increase their duties in many ways.
The cords of discipline are suddenly drawn tight.  For the disorder
which prevailed when I landed, Frere has substituted a sudden
and excessive rigour.  Any officer found giving the smallest piece of tobacco
to a prisoner is liable to removal from the island..The tobacco which grows
wild has been rooted up and destroyed lest the men should obtain a leaf of it.
The privilege of having a pannikin of hot water when the gangs came in
from field labour in the evening has been withdrawn.  The shepherds,
hut-keepers, and all other prisoners, whether at the stations of Longridge
or the Cascades (where the English convicts are stationed) are forbidden
to keep a parrot or any other bird.  The plaiting of  straw hats
during the prisoners' leisure hours is also prohibited.  At the settlement
where the "old hands" are located railed boundaries have been erected,
beyond which no prisoner must pass unless to work.  Two days ago Job Dodd,
a negro, let his jacket fall over the boundary rails, crossed them
to recover it, and was severely flogged.  The floggings are hideously frequent.
On flogging mornings I have seen the ground where the men stood
at the triangles saturated with blood, as if a bucket of blood had been spilled
on it, covering a space three feet in diameter, and running out
in various directions, in little streams two or three feet long.
At the same time, let me say, with that strict justice I force myself
to mete out to those whom I dislike, that the island is in a condition
of abject submission.  There is not much chance of mutiny.  The men go
to their work without a murmur, and slink to their dormitories
like whipped hounds to kennel.  The gaols and solitary (!) cells are crowded
with prisoners, and each day sees fresh sentences for fresh crimes.
It is crime here to do anything but live.

The method by which Captain Frere has brought about this repose of desolation
is characteristic of him.  He sets every man as a spy upon his neighbour,
awes the more daring into obedience by the display of a ruffianism
more outrageous than their own, and, raising the worst scoundrels
in the place to office, compels them to find "cases" for punishment.
Perfidy is rewarded.  It has been made part of a convict-policeman's duty
to search a fellow-prisoner anywhere and at any time.  This searching
is often conducted in a wantonly rough and disgusting manner;
and if resistance be offered, the man resisting can be knowcked down
by a blow from the searcher's bludgeon.  Inquisitorial vigilance
and indiscriminating harshness prevail everywhere, and the lives of hundreds
of prisoners are reduced to a continual agony of terror and self-loathing.

"It is impossible, Captain Frere," said I one day, during the initiation
of this system, "to think that these villains whom you have made constables
will do their duty."

He replied, "They must do their duty.  If they are indulgent to the prisoners,
they know I shall flog 'em.  If they do what I tell 'em, they'll make
themselves so hated that they'd have their own father up to the triangles
to save themselves being sent back to the ranks."

"You treat them then like slave-keepers of a wild beast den.   They must flog
the animals to avoid being flogged themselves."

"Ay," said he, with his coarse laugh, "and having once flogged 'em,
they'd do anything rather than be put in the cage, don't you see!"

It is horrible to think of this sort of logic being used by a man
who has a wife, and friends and enemies.  It is the logic that the
Keeper of the Tormented would use, I should think.  I am sick unto death
of the place.  It makes me an unbeliever in the social charities.
It takes out of penal science anything it may possess of nobility or worth.
It is cruel, debasing, inhuman.



August 26th.--Saw Rufus Dawes again to-day.  His usual bearing
is ostentatiously rough and brutal.  He has sunk to a depth of self-abasement
in which he takes a delight in his degradation.  This condition is one
familiar to me.

He is working in the chain-gang to which Hankey was made sub-overseer.
Blind Mooney, an ophthalmic prisoner, who was removed from the gang
to hospital, told me that there was a plot to murder Hankey, but that Dawes,
to whom he had shown some kindness, had prevented it.  I saw Hankey
and told him of this, asking him if he had been aware of the plot.
He said "No," falling into a great tremble.  "Major Pratt promised me
a removal," said he.  "I expected it would come to this."
I asked him why Dawes defended him; and after some trouble he told me,
exacting from me a promise that I would not acquaint the Commandant.
It seems that one morning last week, Hankey had gone up to Captain Frere's
house with a return from Troke, and coming back through the garden
had plucked a flower.  Dawes had asked him for this flower, offering
two days' rations for it.  Hankey, who is not a bad-hearted man,
gave him the sprig.  "There were tears in his eyes as he took it," said he.

There must be some way to get at this man's heart, bad as he seems to be.



August 28th.--Hankey was murdered yesterday.  He applied to be removed
from the gaol-gang, but Frere refused.  "I never let my men 'funk'," he said.
"If they've threatened to murder you, I'll keep you there another month
in spite of 'em."

Someone who overheard this reported it to the gang, and  they set upon
the unfortunate gaoler yesterday, and beat his brains out with their shovels.
Troke says that the wretch who was foremost cried, "There's for you;
and if your master don't take care, he'll get served the same
one of these days!" The gang were employed at building a reef in the sea,
and were working up to their armpits in water.  Hankey fell into the surf,
and never moved after the first blow.  I saw the gang, and Dawes said--

"It was Frere's fault; he should have let the man go!"

"I am surprised you did not interfere," said I.

"I did all I could," was the man's answer.  "What's a life more or less, here?"

This occurrence has spread consternation among the overseers,
and they have addressed a "round robin" to the Commandant,
praying to be relieved from their positions.

The way Frere has dealt with this petition is characteristic of him,
and fills me at once with admiration and disgust.  He came down with it
in his hand to the gaol-gang, walked into the yard, shut the gate, and said,
"I've just got this from my overseers.  They say they're afraid
you'll murder them as you murdered Hankey.  Now, if you want to murder,
murder me.  Here I am.  Step out, one of you." All this, said in a tone
of the most galling contempt, did not move them.  I saw a dozen pairs of eyes
flash hatred, but the bull-dog courage of the man overawed them here, as,
I am told, it had done in Sydney.  It would have been easy to kill him
then and there, and his death, I am told, is sworn among them;
but no one raised a finger.  The only man who moved was Rufus Dawes,
and he checked himself instantly.  Frere, with a recklessness of which
I did not think him capable, stepped up to this terror of the prison,
and ran his hands lightly down his sides, as is the custom with constables
when "searching" a man.  Dawes--who is of a fierce temper--turned crimson
at this and, I thought, would have struck him, but he did not.
Frere then--still unarmed and alone--proceeded to the man, saying,
"Do you think of bolting again, Dawes?  Have you made any more boats?"

"You Devil!" said the chained man, in a voice pregnant with such weight
of unborn murder, that the gang winced.  "You'll find me one,"
said Frere, with a laugh; and, turning to me, continued, in the same
jesting tone, "There's a penitent for you, Mr. North--try your hand on him."

 I was speechless at his audacity, and must have shown my disgust
 in my face, for he coloured slightly, and as we were leaving the yard,
 he endeavoured to excuse himself, by saying that it was no use preaching
 to stones, and such doubly-dyed villains as this Dawes were past hope.
 "I know the ruffian of old," said he.  "He came out in the ship
 from England with me, and tried to raise a mutiny on board.  He was the man
 who nearly murdered my wife.  He has never been out of irons--except then
 and when he escaped--for the last eighteen years; and as he's three
 life sentences, he's like to die in 'em."

A monstrous wretch and criminal, evidently, and yet I feel
a strange sympathy with this outcast.




CHAPTER V.

MR. RICHARD DEVINE SURPRISED.



The town house of Mr. Richard Devine was in Clarges Street.  Not that
the very modest mansion there situated was the only establishment of which
Richard Devine was master.  Mr. John Rex had expensive tastes.
He neither shot nor hunted, so he had no capital invested in Scotch moors
or Leicestershire hunting-boxes.  But his stables were the wonder of London,
he owned almost a racing village near Doncaster, kept a yacht at Cowes,
and, in addition to a house in Paris, paid the rent of a villa at Brompton.
He belonged to several clubs of the faster sort, and might have lived
like a prince at any one of them had he been so minded; but a constant
and haunting fear of discovery--which three years of unquestioned ease
and unbridled riot had not dispelled--led him to prefer the privacy
of his own house, where he could choose his own society.  The house
in Clarges Street was decorated in conformity with the tastes of its owner.
The pictures were pictures of horses, the books were records of races,
or novels purporting to describe sporting life.  Mr. Francis Wade,
waiting, on the morning of the 20th April, for the coming of his nephew,
sighed as he thought of the cultured quiet of North End House.

Mr. Richard appeared in his dressing-gown.  Three years of good living
and hard drinking had deprived his figure of its  athletic beauty.
He was past forty years of age, and the sudden cessation from severe bodily
toil to which in his active life as a convict and squatter he had been
accustomed, had increased Rex's natural proneness to fat, and instead
of being portly he had become gross.  His cheeks were inflamed
with the frequent application of hot and rebellious liquors to his blood.
His hands were swollen, and not so steady as of yore.  His whiskers
were streaked with unhealthy grey.  His eyes, bright and black as ever,
lurked in a thicket of crow's feet.  He had become prematurely bald--
a sure sign of mental or bodily excess.  He spoke with assumed heartiness,
in a boisterous tone of affected ease.

"Ha, ha!  My dear uncle, sit down.  Delighted to see you.  Have you
breakfasted?--of course you have.  I was up rather late last night.
Quite sure you won't have anything.  A glass of wine?  No--then sit down
and tell me all the news of Hampstead."

"Thank you, Richard," said the old gentleman, a little stiffly,
"but I want some serious talk with you.  What do you intend to do
with the property? This indecision worries me.  Either relieve me of my trust,
or be guided by my advice."

"Well, the fact is," said Richard, with a very ugly look on his face,
"the fact is--and you may as well know it at once--I am much pushed for money."

"Pushed for money!" cried Mr. Wade, in horror.  "Why, Purkiss said
the property was worth twenty thousand a year."

"So it might have been--five years ago--but my horse-racing, and betting,
and other amusements, concerning which you need not too curiously inquire,
have reduced its value considerably."

He spoke recklessly and roughly.  It was evident that success had but developed
his ruffianism.  His "dandyism" was only comparative.  The impulse of poverty
and scheming which led him to affect the "gentleman" having been removed,
the natural brutality of his nature showed itself quite freely.
Mr. Francis Wade took a pinch of snuff with a sharp motion of distaste.
"I do not want to hear of your debaucheries," he said; "our name has been
sufficiently disgraced in my hearing."

"What is got over the devil's back goes under his belly," replied Mr. Richard,
coarsely.  "My old father got his money by dirtier ways than these
in which I spend it.  As villainous an old scoundrel and skinflint
as ever poisoned a seaman, I'll go bail."

 Mr. Francis rose.  "You need not revile your father, Richard--
 he left you all."

"Ay, but by pure accident.  He didn't mean it.  If he hadn't died in the nick
of time, that unhung murderous villain, Maurice Frere, would have
come in for it.  By the way," he added, with a change of tone,
"do you ever hear anything of Maurice?"

"I have not heard for some years," said Mr. Wade.  "He is something
in the Convict Department at Sydney, I think." "Is he?" said Mr. Richard,
with a shiver.  "Hope he'll stop there.  Well, but about business.
The fact is, that--that I am thinking of selling everything."

"Selling everything!"

"Yes.  'Pon my soul I am.  The Hampstead place and all."

"Sell North End House!" cried poor Mr. Wade, in bewilderment.
"You'd sell it?  Why, the carvings by Grinling Gibbons are the finest
in England."

"I can't help that," laughed Mr. Richard, ringing the bell.  "I want cash,
and cash I must have.--Breakfast, Smithers.--I'm going to travel."

Francis Wade was breathless with astonishment.  Educated and reared
as he had been, he would as soon have thought of proposing to sell
St. Paul's Cathedral as to sell the casket which held his treasures of art--
his coins, his coffee-cups, his pictures, and his "proofs before letters".

"Surely, Richard, you are not in earnest?" he gasped.

"I am, indeed."

"But--but who will buy it?"

"Plenty of people.  I shall cut it up into building allotments.
Besides, they are talking of a suburban line, with a terminus at
St. John's Wood, which will cut the garden in half.  You are quite sure
you've breakfasted?  Then pardon me."

"Richard, you are jesting with me! You will never let them do such a thing!"

"I'm thinking of a trip to America," said Mr. Richard, cracking an egg.
"I am sick of Europe.  After all, what is the good of a man like me pretending
to belong to 'an old family', with 'a seat' and all that humbug?
Money is the thing now, my dear uncle.  Hard cash! That's the ticket for soup,
you may depend."

"Then what do you propose doing, sir?"

"To buy my mother's life interest as provided, realize upon the property,
and travel," said Mr. Richard, helping himself to potted grouse.

"You amaze me, Richard.  You confound me.  Of course you can do as you please.
But so sudden a determination.  The old house--vases--coins--pictures--
scattered--I really--Well, it is your property, of course--and--and--I wish
you a very good morning!"

"I mean to do as I please," soliloquized Rex, as he resumed his breakfast.
"Let him sell his rubbish by auction, and go and live abroad, in Germany
or Jerusalem if he likes, the farther the better for me.  I'll sell
the property and make myself scarce.  A trip to America will benefit my health."

A knock at the door made him start.

"Come in! Curse it, how nervous I'm getting.  What's that?  Letters?  Give
them to me; and why the devil don't you put the brandy on the table, Smithers?"

He drank some of the spirit greedily, and then began to open
his correspondence.

"Cussed brute," said Mr. Smithers, outside the door.  "He couldn't use
wuss langwidge if he was a dook, dam 'im!--Yessir," he added, suddenly,
as a roar from his master recalled him.

"When did this come?" asked Mr. Richard, holding out a letter more than
usually disfigured with stampings.

"Lars night, sir.  It's bin to 'Amstead, sir, and come down directed
with the h'others." The angry glare of the black eyes induced him to add,
"I 'ope there's nothink wrong, sir."

"Nothing, you infernal ass and idiot," burst out Mr. Richard, white with rage,
"except that I should have had this instantly.  Can't you see it's marked
urgent?  Can you read?  Can you spell?  There, that will do.  No lies.
Get out!"

Left to himself again, Mr. Richard walked hurriedly up and down the chamber,
wiped his forehead, drank a tumbler of brandy, and finally sat down
and re-read the letter.  It was short, but terribly to the purpose.



"THE GEORGE HOTEL, PLYMOUTH,"
17th April, 1846.

"MY DEAR JACK,--

"I have found you out, you see.  Never mind how just
at present.  I know all about your proceedings,
and unless Mr. Richard Devine receives  his "wife"
with due propriety, he'll find himself in the custody
of the police.  Telegraph, dear, to Mrs. Richard Devine,
at above address.

"Yours as ever, Jack,
"SARAH.

"To Richard Devine, Esq.,
"North End House,
"Hampstead." 



The blow was unexpected and severe.  It was hard, in the very high tide
and flush of assured success, to be thus plucked back into the old bondage.
Despite the affectionate tone of the letter, he knew the woman with whom
he had to deal.  For some furious minutes he sat motionless, gazing
at the letter.  He did not speak--men seldom do under such circumstances--
but his thoughts ran in this fashion: "Here is this cursed woman again!
Just as I was congratulating myself on my freedom.  How did she discover me?
Small use asking that.  What shall I do? I can do nothing.  It is absurd
to run away, for I shall be caught.  Besides, I've no money.  My account
at Mastermann's is overdrawn two thousand pounds.  If I bolt at all,
I must bolt at once--within twenty-four hours.  Rich as I am, I don't suppose
I could raise more than five thousand pounds in that time.  These things
take a day or two, say forty-eight hours.  In forty-eight hours
I could raise twenty thousand pounds, but forty-eight hours is too long.
Curse the woman! I know her! How in the fiend's name did she discover me?
It's a bad job.  However, she's not inclined to be gratuitiously disagreeable.
How lucky I never married again! I had better make terms and trust to fortune.
After all, she's been a good friend to me.--Poor Sally!--I might have rotted
on that infernal Eaglehawk Neck if it hadn't been for her.  She is not
a bad sort.  Handsome woman, too.  I may make it up with her.  I shall have
to sell off and go away after all.--It might be worse.--I dare say
the property's worth three hundred thousand pounds.  Not bad for a start
in America.  And I may get rid of her yet.  Yes.  I must give in.--Oh,
curse her!--[ringing the bell]--Smithers!" [Smithers appears.]
"A telegraph form and a cab! Stay.  Pack me a dressing-bag.  I shall be away
for a day or so.  [Sotto voce]--I'd better see her myself. --[ Aloud]--Bring
me a Bradshaw! [Sotto voce]--Damn the woman."




CHAPTER VI.

IN WHICH THE CHAPLAIN IS TAKEN ILL.


Though the house of the Commandant of Norfolk Island was comfortable
and well furnished, and though, of necessity, all that was most hideous
in the "discipline" of the place was hidden, the loathing with which Sylvia
had approached the last and most dreaded abiding place of the elaborate
convict system, under which it had been her misfortune to live,
had not decreased.  The sights and sounds of pain and punishment
surrounded her.  She could not look out of her windows without a shudder.
She dreaded each evening when her husband returned, lest he should blurt out
some new atrocity.  She feared to ask him in the morning whither he was going,
lest he should thrill her with the announcement of some fresh punishment.

"I wish, Maurice, we had never come here," said she, piteously,
when he recounted to her the scene of the gaol-gang.  "These unhappy men
will do you some frightful injury one of these days."

"Stuff!" said her husband.  "They've not the courage.  I'd take the best man
among them, and dare him to touch me."

"I cannot think how you like to witness so much misery and villainy.
It is horrible to think of."

"Our tastes differ, my dear.--Jenkins! Confound you! Jenkins, I say."
The convict-servant entered.  "Where is the charge-book?  I've told you always
to have it ready for me.  Why don't you do as you are told?  You idle,
lazy scoundrel! I suppose you were yarning in the cookhouse, or--"

"If you please, sir."

"Don't answer me, sir.  Give me the book." Taking it and running his finger
down the leaves, he commented on the list of offences to which he would
be called upon in the morning to mete out judgment.

"Meer-a-seek, having a pipe--the rascally Hindoo scoundrel!--Benjamin Pellett,
having fat in his possession.  Miles Byrne, not walking fast enough.--
We must enliven Mr. Byrne.  Thomas Twist, having a pipe and striking a light.
W.  Barnes, not in place at muster; says he was 'washing himself'--
I'll wash him! John Richards, missing muster and insolence.  John Gateby,
insolence and insubordination.  James Hopkins, insolence and foul language.
Rufus Dawes, gross insolence, refusing to work.--Ah! we must look after you.
You are a parson's man now, are you?  I'll break your spirit, my man,
or I'll--Sylvia!"

"Yes."

"Your friend Dawes is doing credit to his bringing up."

"What do you mean?"

"That infernal villain and reprobate, Dawes.  He is fitting himself faster
for--" She interrupted him.  "Maurice, I wish you would not use such language.
You know I dislike it." She spoke coldly and sadly, as one who knows
that remonstrance is vain, and is yet constrained to remonstrate.

"Oh, dear! My Lady Proper! can't bear to hear her husband swear.
How refined we're getting!"

"There, I did not mean to annoy you," said she, wearily.  "Don't let us
quarrel, for goodness' sake."

He went away noisily, and she sat looking at the carpet wearily.
A noise roused her.  She looked up and saw North.  Her face beamed instantly.
"Ah!  Mr. North, I did not expect you.  What brings you here?  You'll stay
to dinner, of course." (She rang the bell without waiting for a reply.)
"Mr. North dines here; place a chair for him.  And have you brought me
the book?  I have been looking for it."

"Here it is," said North, producing a volume of 'Monte Cristo'.
She seized the book with avidity, and, after running her eyes over the pages,
turned inquiringly to the fly-leaf.

"It belongs to my predecessor," said North, as though in answer to her thought.
"He seems to have been a great reader of French.  I have found many
French novels of his."

"I thought clergymen never read French novels," said Sylvia, with a smile.

"There are French novels and French novels," said North.  "Stupid people
confound the good with the bad.  I remember a worthy friend of mine
in Sydney who soundly abused me for reading 'Rabelais', and when I asked him
if he had read it, he said that he would sooner cut his hand off than open it.
Admirable judge of its merits!"

"But is this really good?  Papa told me it was rubbish."

 "It is a romance, but, in my opinion, a very fine one.  The notion
 of the sailor being taught in prison by the priest, and sent back into the
 world an accomplished gentleman, to work out his vengeance, is superb."

"No, now--you are telling me," laughed she; and then, with feminine perversity,
"Go on, what is the story?"

"Only that of an unjustly imprisoned man, who, escaping by a marvel,
and becoming rich--as Dr. Johnson says, 'beyond the dreams of avarice'--
devotes his life and fortune to revenge himself."

"And does he?"

"He does, upon all his enemies save one."

"And he--?"  "She--was the wife of his greatest enemy, and Dantes spared her
because he loved her."

Sylvia turned away her head.  "It seems interesting enough," said she, coldly.

There was an awkward silence for a moment, which each seemed afraid to break.
North bit his lips, as though regretting what he had said.  Mrs. Frere
beat her foot on the floor, and at length, raising her eyes,
and meeting those of the clergyman fixed upon her face, rose hurriedly,
and went to meet her returning husband.

"Come to dinner, of course!" said Frere, who, though he disliked the clergyman,
yet was glad of anybody who would help him to pass a cheerful evening.

"I came to bring Mrs. Frere a book."

"Ah! She reads too many books; she's always reading books.  It is not
a good thing to be always poring over print, is it, North?  You have
some influence with her; tell her so.  Come, I am hungry."

He spoke with that affectation of jollity with which husbands of his calibre
veil their bad temper.

Sylvia had her defensive armour on in a twinkling.  "Of course,
you two men will be against me.  When did two men ever disagree upon
the subject of wifely duties?  However, I shall read in spite of you.
Do you know, Mr. North, that when I married I made a special agreement
with Captain Frere that I was not to be asked to sew on buttons for him?"

"Indeed!" said North, not understanding this change of humour.

 "And she never has from that hour," said Frere, recovering his suavity
 at the sight of food.  "I never have a shirt fit to put on.  Upon my word,
 there are a dozen in the drawer now."

North perused his plate uncomfortably.  A saying of omniscient Balzac
occurred to him.  "Le grand ecueil est le ridicule," and his mind began
to sound all sorts of philosophical depths, not of the most clerical character.

After dinner Maurice launched out into his usual topic--convict discipline.
It was pleasant for him to get a listener; for his wife, cold
and unsympathetic, tacitly declined to enter into his schemes for the subduing
of the refractory villains.  "You insisted on coming here," she would say.
"I did not wish to come.  I don't like to talk of these things.  Let us talk
of something else." When she adopted this method of procedure, he had
no alternative but to submit, for he was afraid of her, after a fashion.
In this ill-assorted match he was only apparently the master.  He was
a physical tyrant.  For him, a creature had but to be weak to be an object
of contempt; and his gross nature triumphed over the finer one of his wife.
Love had long since died out of their life.  The young, impulsive,
delicate girl, who had given herself to him seven years before,
had been changed into a weary, suffering woman.  The wife is what her husband
makes her, and his rude animalism had made her the nervous invalid she was.
Instead of love, he had awakened in her a distaste which at times amounted to
disgust.  We have neither the skill nor the boldness of that
profound philosopher whose autopsy of the human heart awoke North's
contemplation, and we will not presume to set forth in bare English
the story of this marriage of the Minotaur.  Let it suffice to say
that Sylvia liked her husband least when he loved her most.  In this repulsion
lay her power over him.  When the animal and spiritual natures cross
each other, the nobler triumphs in fact if not in appearance.  Maurice Frere,
though his wife obeyed him, knew that he was inferior to her, and was afraid
of the statue he had created.  She was ice, but it was the artificial ice
that chemists make in the midst of a furnace.  Her coldness was at once
her strength and her weakness.  When she chilled him, she commanded him.

Unwitting of the thoughts that possessed his guest, Frere chatted amicably.
North said little, but drank a good deal.  The wine, however, rendered him
silent, instead of talkative.   He drank that he might forget unpleasant
memories, and drank without accomplishing his object.  When the pair proceeded
to the room where Mrs. Frere awaited them, Frere was boisterously
good-humoured, North silently misanthropic.

"Sing something, Sylvia!" said Frere, with the ease of possession,
as one who should say to a living musical-box, "Play something."

"Oh, Mr. North doesn't care for music, and I'm not inclined to sing.
Singing seems out of place here."

"Nonsense," said Frere.  "Why should it be more out of place here
than anywhere else?"

"Mrs. Frere means that mirth is in a manner unsuited to these melancholy
surroundings," said North, out of his keener sense.

"Melancholy surroundings!" cried Frere, staring in turn at the piano,
the ottomans, and the looking-glass.  "Well, the house isn't as good
as the one in Sydney, but it's comfortable enough."

"You don't understand me, Maurice," said Sylvia.  "This place is very gloomy
to me.  The thought of the unhappy men who are ironed and chained all about us
makes me miserable."

"What stuff!" said Frere, now thoroughly roused.  "The ruffians deserve
all they get and more.  Why should you make yourself wretched about them?"

"Poor men! How do we know the strength of their temptation,
the bitterness of their repentance?"

"Evil-doers earn their punishment," says North, in a hard voice,
and taking up a book suddenly.  "They must learn to bear it.
No repentance can undo their sin."

"But surely there is mercy for the worst of evil-doers," urged Sylvia, gently.

North seemed disinclined or unable to reply, and nodded only.

"Mercy!" cried Frere.  "I am not here to be merciful; I am here to keep
these scoundrels in order, and by the Lord that made me, I'll do it!"

"Maurice, do not talk like that.  Think how slight an accident might
have made any one of us like one of these men.  What is the matter, Mr. North?"

Mr. North has suddenly turned pale.

"Nothing," returned the clergyman, gasping--"a sudden  faintness!"
The windows were thrown open, and the chaplain gradually recovered,
as he did in Burgess's parlour, at Port Arthur, seven years ago.
"I am liable to these attacks.  A touch of heart disease, I think.
I shall have to rest for a day or so." "Ah, take a spell," said Frere;
"you overwork yourself."

North, sitting, gasping and pale, smiles in a ghastly manner.  "I--I will.
If I do not appear for a week, Mrs. Frere, you will know the reason."

"A week!  Surely it will not last so long as that!" exclaims Sylvia.

The ambiguous "it" appears to annoy him, for he flushes painfully,
replying, "Sometimes longer.  It is, a--um--uncertain," in a confused
and shame-faced manner, and is luckily relieved by the entry of Jenkins.

"A message from Mr. Troke, sir."

"Troke! What's the matter now?"

"Dawes, sir, 's been violent and assaulted Mr. Troke.  Mr. Troke said
you'd left orders to be told at onst of the insubordination of prisoners."

"Quite right.  Where is he?" "In the cells, I think, sir.  They had a hard
fight to get him there, I am told, your honour."

"Had they? Give my compliments to Mr. Troke, and tell him that I shall have
the pleasure of breaking Mr. Dawes's spirit to-morrow morning at nine sharp."

"Maurice," said Sylvia, who had been listening to the conversation
in undisguised alarm, "do me a favour?  Do not torment this man."

"What makes you take a fancy to him?" asks her husband, with sudden
unnecessary fierceness.

"Because his is one of the names which have been from my childhood
synonymous with suffering and torture, because whatever wrong he may have done,
his life-long punishment must have in some degree atoned for it."

She spoke with an eager pity in her face that transfigured it.  North,
devouring her with his glance, saw tears in her eyes.  "Does this look
as if he had made atonement?" said Frere coarsely, slapping the letter.

"He is a bad man, I know, but--" she passed her hand over her forehead
with the old troubled gesture--"he cannot  have been always bad.
I think I have heard some good of him somewhere."

"Nonsense," said Frere, rising decisively.  "Your fancies mislead you.
Let me hear you no more.  The man is rebellious, and must be lashed back again
to his duty.  Come, North, we'll have a nip before you start."

"Mr. North, will not you plead for me?" suddenly cried poor Sylvia,
her self-possession overthrown.  "You have a heart to pity these
suffering creatures."

But North, who seemed to have suddenly recalled his soul from some place
where it had been wandering, draws himself aside, and with dry lips
makes shift to say, "I cannot interfere with your husband, madam,"
and goes out almost rudely.

"You've made old North quite ill," said Frere, when he by-and-by returns,
hoping by bluff ignoring of roughness on his own part to avoid reproach
from his wife.  "He drank half a bottle of brandy to steady his nerves
before he went home, and swung out of the house like one possessed."

But Sylvia, occupied with her own thoughts, did not reply.  




CHAPTER VII.

BREAKING A MAN'S SPIRIT.



The insubordination of which Rufus Dawes had been guilty was, in this instance,
insignificant.  It was the custom of the newly-fledged constables
of Captain Frere to enter the wards at night, armed with cutlasses,
tramping about, and making a great noise.  Mindful of the report of Pounce,
they pulled the men roughly from their hammocks, examined their persons
for concealed tobacco, and compelled them to open their mouths to see
if any was inside.  The men in Dawes's gang--to which Mr. Troke had
an especial objection--were often searched more than once in a night,
searched going to work, searched at meals, searched going to prayers,
searched coming out, and this in the roughest manner.  Their sleep broken,
and what little self-respect they might yet presume to retain harried
out of them, the objects of this incessant persecution were ready to turn
upon and kill their tormentors.

The great aim of Troke was to catch Dawes tripping, but the leader
of the "Ring" was far too wary.  In vain had Troke, eager to sustain
his reputation for sharpness, burst in upon the convict at all times
and seasons.  He had found nothing.  In vain had he laid traps for him;
in vain had he "planted" figs of tobacco, and attached long threads to them,
waited in a bush hard by, until the pluck at the end of his line should give
token that the fish had bitten.  The experienced "old hand" was too acute
for him.  Filled with disgust and ambition, he determined upon
an ingenious little trick.  He was certain that Dawes possessed tobacco;
the thing was to find it upon him.  Now, Rufus Dawes, holding aloof,
as was his custom, from the majority of his companions, had made one friend--
if so mindless and battered an old wreck could be called a friend--
Blind Mooney.  Perhaps this oddly-assorted friendship was brought about
by two causes--one, that Mooney was the only man on the island who knew more
of the horrors of convictism than the leader of the Ring; the other,
that Mooney was blind, and, to a moody, sullen man, subject to violent fits
of passion and a constant suspicion of all his fellow-creatures,
a blind companion was more congenial than a sharp-eyed one.

Mooney was one of the "First Fleeters".  He had arrived in Sydney
fifty-seven years before, in the year 1789, and when he was transported
he was fourteen years old.  He had been through the whole round of servitude,
had worked as a bondsman, had married, and been "up country", had been
again sentenced, and was a sort of dismal patriarch of Norfolk Island,
having been there at its former settlement.  He had no friends.
His wife was long since dead, and he stated, without contradiction,
that his master, having taken a fancy to her, had despatched the
uncomplaisant husband to imprisonment.  Such cases were not uncommon.

One of the many ways in which Rufus Dawes had obtained the affection
of the old blind man was a gift of such fragments of tobacco as he had himself
from time to time secured.  Troke knew this; and on the evening in question
hit upon an excellent plan.  Admitting himself noiselessly into the boat-shed,
where the gang slept, he crept close to the sleeping Dawes, and counterfeiting
Mooney's mumbling utterance asked for "some tobacco".  Rufus Dawes was
but half awake, and on repeating his request, Troke felt something
put into his hand.  He grasped Dawes's arm, and struck a light.
He had got his man this time.   Dawes had conveyed to his fancied friend
a piece of tobacco almost as big as the top joint of his little finger.
One can understand the feelings of a man entrapped by such base means.
Rufus Dawes no sooner saw the hated face of Warder Troke peering over
his hammock, then he sprang out, and exerting to the utmost his powerful
muscles, knocked Mr. Troke fairly off his legs into the arms of the
in-coming constables.  A desperate struggle took place, at the end
of which the convict, overpowered by numbers, was borne senseless
to the cells, gagged, and chained to the ring-bolt on the bare flags.
While in this condition he was savagely beaten by five or six constables.

To this maimed and manacled rebel was the Commandant ushered
by Troke the next morning.

"Ha! ha! my man," said the Commandant.  "Here you are again, you see.
How do you like this sort of thing?"

Dawes, glaring, makes no answer.

"You shall have fifty lashes, my man," said Frere.  "We'll see how you feel
then!"  The fifty were duly administered, and the Commandant called
the next day.  The rebel was still mute.

"Give him fifty more, Mr. Troke.  We'll see what he's made of."

One hundred and twenty lashes were inflicted in the course of the morning,
but still the sullen convict refused to speak.  He was then treated
to fourteen days' solitary confinement in one of the new cells.
On being brought out and confronted with his tormentor, he merely laughed.
For this he was sent back for another fourteen days; and still
remaining obdurate, was flogged again, and got fourteen days more.
Had the chaplain then visited him, he might have found him open
to consolation, but the chaplain--so it was stated--was sick.
When brought out at the conclusion of his third confinement,
he was found to be in so exhausted a condition that the doctor ordered him
to hospital.  As soon as he was sufficiently recovered, Frere visited him,
and finding his "spirit" not yet "broken", ordered that he should be put
to grind maize.  Dawes declined to work.  So they chained his hand
to one arm of the grindstone and placed another prisoner at the other arm.
As the second prisoner turned, the hand of Dawes of course revolved.

"You're not such a pebble as folks seemed to think," grinned Frere,
pointing to the turning wheel.

 Upon which the indomitable poor devil straightened his sorely-tried muscles,
 and prevented the wheel from turning at all.  Frere gave him fifty
 more lashes, and sent him the next day to grind cayenne pepper.
 This was a punishment more dreaded by the convicts than any other.
 The pungent dust filled their eyes and lungs, causing them the
 most excruciating torments.  For a man with a raw back the work was
 one continued agony.  In four days Rufus Dawes, emaciated, blistered,
 blinded, broke down.

"For God's sake, Captain Frere, kill me at once!" he said.

"No fear," said the other, rejoiced at this proof of his power.
"You've given in; that's all I wanted.  Troke, take him off to the hospital."

When he was in hospital, North visited him.

"I would have come to see you before," said the clergyman,
"but I have been very ill."

In truth he looked so.  He had had a fever, it seemed, and they had shaved
his beard, and cropped his hair.  Dawes could see that the haggard,
wasted man had passed through some agony almost as great as his own.
The next day Frere visited him, complimented him on his courage,
and offered to make him a constable.  Dawes turned his scarred back
to his torturer, and resolutely declined to answer.

"I am afraid you have made an enemy of the Commandant," said North,
the next day.  "Why not accept his offer?"

Dawes cast on him a glance of quiet scorn.  "And betray my mates?
I'm not one of that sort."

The clergyman spoke to him of hope, of release, of repentance,
and redemption.  The prisoner laughed.  "Who's to redeem me?"
he said, expressing his thoughts in phraseology that to ordinary folks
might seem blasphemous.  "It would take a Christ to die again to save
such as I."

North spoke to him of immortality.  "There is another life,"
said he.  "Do not risk your chance of happiness in it.  You have a future
to live for, man."

"I hope not," said the victim of the "system".  "I want to rest--to rest,
and never to be disturbed again."

His "spirit" was broken enough by this time.  Yet he had resolution enough
to refuse Frere's repeated offers.  "I'll never 'jump' it," he said to North,
"if they cut me in half first."

North pityingly implored the stubborn mind to have mercy on the lacerated body,
but without effect.  His own wayward heart gave him the key to read the cipher
of this man's life.  "A noble nature ruined," said he to himself.
"What is the secret of his history?"

Dawes, on his part, seeing how different from other black coats was
this priest--at once so ardent and so gloomy, so stern and so tender--began to
speculate on the cause of his monitor's sunken cheeks, fiery eyes,
and pre-occupied manner, to wonder what grief inspired those agonized prayers,
those eloquent and daring supplications, which were daily poured out
over his rude bed.  So between these two--the priest and the sinner--was
a sort of sympathetic bond.

One day this bond was drawn so close as to tug at both their heart-strings.
The chaplain had a flower in his coat.  Dawes eyed it with hungry looks,
and, as the clergyman was about to quit the room, said, "Mr. North,
will you give me that rosebud?" North paused irresolutely, and finally,
as if after a struggle with himself, took it carefully from his button-hole,
and placed it in the prisoner's brown, scarred hand.  In another instant Dawes,
believing himself alone, pressed the gift to his lips.  North returned
abruptly, and the eyes of the pair met.  Dawes flushed crimson,
but North turned white as death.  Neither spoke, but each was drawn close
to the other, since both had kissed the rosebud plucked by Sylvia's fingers.




CHAPTER VIII.

EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH.



October 21st.--I am safe for another six months if I am careful, for my last
bout lasted longer than I expected.  I suppose one of these days I shall
have a paroxysm that will kill me.  I shall not regret it.

I wonder if this familiar of mine--I begin to detest the expression--will
accuse me of endeavouring to make a case for myself if I say that I believe
my madness to be a disease? I do believe it.  I honestly can no more help
getting drunk than a lunatic can help screaming and gibbering.
It would be different with me, perhaps, were I a contented man,
happily married, with children about me, and family cares to distract me.
But as I  am--a lonely, gloomy being, debarred from love, devoured by spleen,
and tortured with repressed desires--I become a living torment to myself.
I think of happier men, with fair wives and clinging children, of men who
are loved and who love, of Frere for instance--and a hideous wild beast seems
to stir within me, a monster, whose cravings cannot be satisfied,
can only be drowned in stupefying brandy.

Penitent and shattered, I vow to lead a new life; to forswear spirits,
to drink nothing but water.  Indeed, the sight and smell of brandy make me ill.
All goes well for some weeks, when I grow nervous, discontented, moody.
I smoke, and am soothed.  But moderation is not to be thought of;
little by little I increase the dose of tobacco.  Five pipes a day become
six or seven.  Then I count up to ten and twelve, then drop to three or four,
then mount to eleven at a leap; then lose count altogether.  Much smoking
excites the brain.  I feel clear, bright, gay.  My tongue is parched
in the morning, however, and I use liquor to literally "moisten my clay".
I drink wine or beer in moderation, and all goes well.  My limbs regain
their suppleness, my hands their coolness, my brain its placidity.
I begin to feel that I have a will.  I am confident, calm, and hopeful.
To this condition succeeds one of the most frightful melancholy.
I remain plunged, for an hour together, in a stupor of despair.
The earth, air, sea, all appear barren, colourless.  Life is a burden.
I long to sleep, and sleeping struggle to awake, because of the awful dreams
which flap about me in the darkness.  At night I cry, "Would to God
it were morning!" In the morning, "Would to God it were evening!"
I loathe myself, and all around me.  I am nerveless, passionless, bowed down
with a burden like the burden of Saul.  I know well what will restore me
to life and ease--restore me, but to cast me back again into a deeper fit
of despair.  I drink.  One glass--my blood is warmed, my heart leaps,
my hand no longer shakes.  Three glasses--I rise with hope in my soul,
the evil spirit flies from me.  I continue--pleasing images flock to my brain,
the fields break into flower, the birds into song, the sea gleams sapphire,
the warm heaven laughs.  Great God! what man could withstand
a temptation like this?

By an effort, I shake off the desire to drink deeper, and fix my thoughts
on my duties, on my books, on the wretched prisoners.  I succeed perhaps
for a time; but my blood, heated  by the wine which is at once my poison
and my life, boils in my veins.  I drink again, and dream.  I feel all
the animal within me stirring.  In the day my thoughts wander to all
monstrous imaginings.  The most familiar objects suggest to me
loathsome thoughts.  Obscene and filthy images surround me.  My nature seems
changed.  By day I feel myself a wolf in sheep's clothing; a man possessed
by a devil, who is ready at any moment to break out and tear him to pieces.
At night I become a satyr.  While in this torment I at once hate
and fear myself.  One fair face is ever before me, gleaming through
my hot dreams like a flying moon in the sultry midnight of a tropic storm.
I dare not trust myself in the presence of those whom I love and respect,
lest my wild thoughts should find vent in wilder words.  I lose my humanity.
I am a beast.  Out of this depth there is but one way of escape.  Downwards.
I must drench the monster I have awakened until he sleeps again.
I drink and become oblivious.  In these last paroxysms there is nothing
for me but brandy.  I shut myself up alone and pour down my gullet
huge draughts of spirit.  It mounts to my brain.  I am a man again!
and as I regain my manhood, I topple over--dead drunk.

But the awakening!  Let me not paint it.  The delirium, the fever,
the self-loathing, the prostration, the despair.  I view in the looking-glass
a haggard face, with red eyes.  I look down upon shaking hands,
flaccid muscles, and shrunken limbs.  I speculate if I shall ever be
one of those grotesque and melancholy beings, with bleared eyes
and running noses, swollen bellies and shrunken legs!  Ugh!--it is too likely.



October 22nd.--Have spent the day with Mrs. Frere.  She is evidently eager
to leave the place--as eager as I am.  Frere rejoices in his murderous power,
and laughs at her expostulations.  I suppose men get tired of their wives.
In my present frame of mind I am at a loss to understand how a man
could refuse a wife anything.

I do not think she can possibly care for him.  I am not a selfish
sentimentalist, as are the majority of seducers.  I would take no woman
away from a husband for mere liking.  Yet I think there are cases
in which a man who loved would be justified in making a woman happy
at the risk of his own--soul, I suppose.

Making her happy! Ay, that's the point.  Would she be happy?  There are few
men who can endure to be "cut", slighted, pointed at, and women suffer
more than men in these regards.  I, a grizzled man of forty, am not such
an arrant ass as to suppose that a year of guilty delirium can compensate
to a gently-nurtured woman for the loss of that social dignity
which constitutes her best happiness.  I am not such an idiot as to forget
that there may come a time when the woman I love may cease to love me,
and having no tie of self-respect, social position, or family duty,
to bind her, may inflict upon her seducer that agony which he has taught her
to inflict upon her husband.  Apart from the question of the sin
of breaking the seventh commandment, I doubt if the worst husband
and the most unhappy home are not better, in this social condition
of ours, than the most devoted lover.  A strange subject this for a clergyman
to speculate upon! If this diary should ever fall into the hands
of a real God-fearing, honest booby, who never was tempted to sin
by finding that at middle-age he loved the wife of another,
how he would condemn me! And rightly, of course.



November 4th.--In one of the turnkey's rooms in the new gaol is to be seen
an article of harness, which at first creates surprise to the mind
of the beholder, who considers what animal of the brute creation exists
of so diminutive a size as to admit of its use.  On inquiry, it will be found
to be a bridle, perfect in head-band, throat-lash, etc., for a human being.
There is attached to this bridle a round piece of cross wood,
of almost four inches in length, and one and a half in diameter.
This again, is secured to a broad strap of leather to cross the mouth.
In the wood there is a small hole, and, when used, the wood is inserted
in the mouth, the small hole being the only breathing space.
This being secured with the various straps and buckles, a more complete bridle
could not be well imagined.

I was in the gaol last evening at eight o'clock.  I had been to see
Rufus Dawes, and returning, paused for a moment to speak to Hailey.
Gimblett, who robbed Mr. Vane of two hundred pounds, was present,
he was at that time a turnkey, holding a third-class pass, and in receipt
of two shillings per diem.  Everything was quite still.  I could not help
remarking how quiet the gaol was, when Gimblett said, "There's someone
speaking.  I know who that is." And forthwith took from its pegs
one of the bridles just described, and a pair of handcuffs.

I followed him to one of the cells, which he opened, and therein was a man
lying on his straw mat, undressed, and to all appearance fast asleep.
Gimblett ordered him to get up and dress himself.  He did so,
and came into the yard, where Gimblett inserted the iron-wood gag
in his mouth.  The sound produced by his breathing through it
(which appeared to be done with great difficulty) resembled a low,
indistinct whistle.  Gimblett led him to the lamp-post in the yard,
and I saw that the victim of his wanton tyranny was the poor blind wretch
Mooney.  Gimblett placed him with his back against the lamp-post,
and his arms being taken round, were secured by handcuffs round the post.
I was told that the old man was to remain in this condition for three hours.
I went at once to the Commandant.  He invited me into his drawing-room--
an invitation which I had the good sense to refuse--but refused to listen
to any plea for mercy.  "The old impostor is always making his blindness
an excuse for disobedience," said he.--And this is her husband.  




CHAPTER IX.

THE LONGEST STRAW.



Rufus Dawes hearing, when "on the chain" the next day, of the wanton
torture of his friend, uttered no threat of vengeance, but groaned only.
"I am not so strong as I was," said he, as if in apology for his lack
of spirit.  "They have unnerved me." And he looked sadly down
at his gaunt frame and trembling hands.

"I can't stand it no longer," said Mooney, grimly.  "I've spoken to Bland,
and he's of my mind.  You know what we resolved to do.  Let's do it."

Rufus Dawes stared at the sightless orbs turned inquiringly to his own.
The fingers of his hand, thrust into his bosom, felt a token which lay there.
A shudder thrilled him.  "No, no.  Not now," he said.

"You're not afeard, man?" asked Mooney, stretching out his hand
in the direction of the voice.  "You're not going to shirk?"  The other
avoided the touch, and shrank away, still  staring.  "You ain't going to
back out after you swored it, Dawes?  You're not that sort.  Dawes, speak, man!"

"Is Bland willing?" asked Dawes, looking round, as if to seek some method
of escape from the glare of those unspeculative eyes.

"Ay, and ready.  They flogged him again yesterday."

"Leave it till to-morrow," said Dawes, at length.

"No; let's have it over," urged the old man, with a strange eagerness.
"I'm tired o' this."

Rufus Dawes cast a wistful glance towards the wall behind which lay
the house of the Commandant.  "Leave it till to-morrow," he repeated,
with his hand still in his breast.

They had been so occupied in their conversation that neither had observed
the approach of their common enemy.  "What are you hiding there?"
cried Frere, seizing Dawes by the wrist.  "More tobacco, you dog?"
The hand of the convict, thus suddenly plucked from his bosom,
opened involuntarily, and a withered rose fell to the earth.
Frere at once, indignant and astonished, picked it up.  "Hallo!
What the devil's this? You've not been robbing my garden for a nosegay,
Jack?"  The Commandant was wont to call all convicts "Jack" in his moments
of facetiousness.  It was a little humorous way he had.

Rufus Dawes uttered one dismal cry, and then stood trembling and cowed.
His companions, hearing the exclamation of rage and grief that burst from him,
looked to see him snatch back the flower or perform some act of violence.
Perhaps such was his intention, but he did not execute it.
One would have thought that there was some charm about this rose
so strangely cherished, for he stood gazing at it, as it twirled between
Captain Frere's strong fingers, as though it fascinated him.
"You're a pretty man to want a rose for your buttonhole!  Are you going out
with your sweetheart next Sunday, Mr. Dawes?"  The gang laughed.
"How did you get this?"  Dawes was silent.  "You'd better tell me."  No answer.
"Troke, let us see if we can't find Mr. Dawes's tongue.  Pull off your shirt,
my man.  I expect that's the way to your heart--eh, boys?"

At this elegant allusion to the lash, the gang laughed again,
and looked at each other astonished.  It seemed possible that the leader
of the "Ring" was going to turn milksop.  Such, indeed, appeared to be
the case, for Dawes, trembling and pale, cried,  "Don't flog me again,
sir!  I picked it up in the yard.  It fell out of your coat one day."
Frere smiled with an inward satisfaction at the result of his spirit-breaking.
The explanation was probably the correct one.  He was in the habit
of wearing flowers in his coat and it was impossible that the convict
should have obtained one by any other means.  Had it been a fig of tobacco now,
the astute Commandant knew plenty of men who would have brought it
into the prison.  But who would risk a flogging for so useless a thing
as a flower?  "You'd better not pick up any more, Jack," he said.
"We don't grow flowers for your amusement." And contemptuously flinging
the rose over the wall, he strode away.

The gang, left to itself for a moment, bestowed their attention upon Dawes.
Large tears were silently rolling down his face, and he stood staring
at the wall as one in a dream.  The gang curled their lips.
One fellow, more charitable than the rest, tapped his forehead and winked.
"He's going cranky," said this good-natured man, who could not understand
what a sane prisoner had to do with flowers.  Dawes recovered himself,
and the contemptuous glances of his companions seemed to bring back
the colour to his cheeks.

"We'll do it to-night," whispered he to Mooney, and Mooney smiled
with pleasure.

Since the "tobacco trick", Mooney and Dawes had been placed in the new prison,
together with a man named Bland, who had already twice failed to kill himself.
When old Mooney, fresh from the torture of the gag-and-bridle,
lamented his hard case, Bland proposed that the three should put in practice
a scheme in which two at least must succeed.  The scheme was a desperate one,
and attempted only in the last extremity.  It was the custom of the Ring,
however, to swear each of its members to carry out to the best of his ability
this last invention of the convict-disciplined mind should two other members
crave his assistance.

The scheme--like all great ideas--was simplicity itself.

That evening, when the cell-door was securely locked, and the absence
of a visiting gaoler might be counted upon for an hour at least,
Bland produced a straw, and held it out to his companions.  Dawes took it,
and tearing it into unequal lengths, handed the fragments to Mooney.

 "The longest is the one," said the blind man.  "Come on, boys,
 and dip in the lucky-bag!"

It was evident that lots were to be drawn to determine to whom fortune
would grant freedom.  The men drew in silence, and then Bland and Dawes
looked at each other.  The prize had been left in the bag.
Mooney--fortunate old fellow--retained the longest straw.  Bland's hand shook
as he compared notes with his companion.  There was a moment's pause,
during which the blank eyeballs of the blind man fiercely searched the gloom,
as if in that awful moment they could penetrate it.

"I hold the shortest," said Dawes to Bland.  "'Tis you that must do it."

"I'm glad of that," said Mooney.

Bland, seemingly terrified at the danger which fate had decreed that he
should run, tore the fatal lot into fragments with an oath, and sat
gnawing his knuckles in excess of abject terror.  Mooney stretched himself
out upon his plank-bed.  "Come on, mate," he said.  Bland extended
a shaking hand, and caught Rufus Dawes by the sleeve.

"You have more nerve than I.  You do it."

"No, no," said Dawes, almost as pale as his companion.  "I've run my chance
fairly.  'Twas your own proposal."  The coward who, confident in his own luck,
would seem to have fallen into the pit he had dug for others,
sat rocking himself to and fro, holding his head in his hands.

"By Heaven, I can't do it," he whispered, lifting a white, wet face.

"What are you waiting for?" said fortunate Mooney.  "Come on, I'm ready."

"I--I--thought you might like to--to--pray a bit," said Bland.

The notion seemed to sober the senses of the old man, exalted too fiercely
by his good fortune.

"Ay!" he said.  "Pray!  A good thought!" and he knelt down; and shutting
his blind eyes--'twas as though he was dazzled by some strong light--unseen
by his comrades, moved his lips silently.  The silence was at last broken
by the footsteps of the warder in the corridor.  Bland hailed it as a reprieve
from whatever act of daring he dreaded.   "We must wait until he goes,"
he whispered eagerly.  "He might look in."

Dawes nodded, and Mooney, whose quick ear apprised him very exactly
of the position of the approaching gaoler, rose from his knees radiant.
The sour face of Gimblett appeared at the trap cell-door.

"All right?"
he asked, somewhat--so the three thought--less sourly than usual.

"All right," was the reply, and Mooney added, "Good-night, Mr. Gimblett."

"I wonder what is making the old man so cheerful," thought Gimblett,
as he got into the next corridor.

The sound of his echoing footsteps had scarcely died away, when upon the ears
of the two less fortunate casters of lots fell the dull sound
of rending woollen.  The lucky man was tearing a strip from his blanket.
"I think this will do," said he, pulling it between his hands
to test its strength.  "I am an old man." It was possible that he debated
concerning the descent of some abyss into which the strip of blanket
was to lower him.  "Here, Bland, catch hold.  Where are ye?--don't be
faint-hearted, man.  It won't take ye long."

It was quite dark now in the cell, but as Bland advanced his face
was like a white mask floating upon the darkness, it was so ghastly pale.
Dawes pressed his lucky comrade's hand, and withdrew to the farthest corner.
Bland and Mooney were for a few moments occupied with the rope--doubtless
preparing for escape by means of it.  The silence was broken only by
the convulsive jangling of Bland's irons--he was shuddering violently.
At last Mooney spoke again, in strangely soft and subdued tones.

"Dawes, lad, do you think there is a Heaven?"

"I know there is a Hell," said Dawes, without turning his face.

"Ay, and a Heaven, lad.  I think I shall go there.  You will, old chap,
for you've been good to me--God bless you, you've been very good to me."


          *          *          *          *          *          *


When Troke came in the morning he saw what had occurred at a glance,
and hastened to remove the corpse of the strangled Mooney.

"We drew lots," said Rufus Dawes, pointing to Bland, who crouched
in the corner farthest from his victim, "and it fell upon him to do it.
I'm the witness."

"They'll hang you for all that," said Troke.

"I hope so," said Rufus Dawes.



The scheme of escape hit upon by
the convict intellect was simply this.  Three men being together,
lots were drawn to determine whom should be murdered.  The drawer
of the longest straw was the "lucky" man.  He was killed.
The drawer of the next longest straw was the murderer.  He was hanged.
The unlucky one was the witness.  He had, of course, an excellent chance
of being hung also, but his doom was not so certain, and he therefore
looked upon himself as unfortunate.




CHAPTER X.

A MEETING.



John Rex found the "George" disagreeably prepared for his august arrival.
Obsequious waiters took his dressing-bag and overcoat, the landlord himself
welcomed him at the door.  Two naval gentlemen came out of the coffee-room
to stare at him.  "Have you any more luggage, Mr. Devine?" asked the landlord,
as he flung open the door of the best drawing-room.  It was awkwardly evident
that his wife had no notion of suffering him to hide his borrowed light
under a bushel.

A supper-table laid for two people gleamed bright from the cheeriest corner.
A fire crackled beneath the marble mantelshelf.  The latest evening paper
lay upon a chair; and, brushing it carelessly with her costly dress,
the woman he had so basely deserted came smiling to meet him.

"Well, Mr. Richard Devine," said she, "you did not expect to see me again,
did you?"

Although, on his journey down, he had composed an elaborate speech
wherewith to greet her, this unnatural civility dumbfounded him.
"Sarah! I never meant to--"

"Hush, my dear Richard--it must be Richard now, I suppose.  This is not
the time for explanations.  Besides, the waiter might hear you.
Let us have some supper; you must be hungry,  I am sure."  He advanced
to the table mechanically.  "But how fat you are!" she continued.
"Too good living, I suppose.  You were not so fat at Port Ar---Oh,
I forgot, my dear! Come and sit down.  That's right.  I have told them
all that I am your wife, for whom you have sent.  They regard me
with some interest and respect in consequence.  Don't spoil
their good opinion of me."

He was about to utter an imprecation, but she stopped him by a glance.
"No bad language, John, or I shall ring for a constable.  Let us understand
one another, my dear.  You may be a very great man to other people,
but to me you are merely my runaway husband--an escaped convict.
If you don't eat your supper civilly, I shall send for the police."

"Sarah!" he burst out, "I never meant to desert you.  Upon my word.
It is all a mistake.  Let me explain."

"There is no need for explanations yet, Jack--I mean Richard.
Have your supper.  Ah! I know what you want."

She poured out half a tumbler of brandy, and gave it to him.  He took
the glass from her hand, drank the contents, and then, as though warmed
by the spirit, laughed.  "What a woman you are, Sarah.  I have been
a great brute, I confess."

"You have been an ungrateful villain," said she, with sudden passion,
"a hardened, selfish villain."

"But, Sarah--"

"Don't touch me!" "'Pon my word, you are a fine creature, and I was a fool
to leave you." The compliment seemed to soothe her, for her tone changed
somewhat.  "It was a wicked, cruel act, Jack.  You whom I saved
from death--whom I nursed--whom I enriched.  It was the act of a coward."

"I admit it.  It was." "You admit it.  Have you no shame then?  Have you
no pity for me for what I have suffered all these years?"

"I don't suppose you cared much."

"Don't you?  You never thought about me at all.  I have cared this much,
John Rex--bah! the door is shut close enough--that I have spent a fortune
in hunting you down; and now I have found you, I will make you suffer
in your turn."

He laughed again, but uneasily.  "How did you discover me?"

With a readiness which showed that she had already prepared an answer
to the question, she unlocked a writing-case, which was on the side table,
and took from it a newspaper.  "By one of those strange accidents
which are the ruin of men like you.  Among the papers sent to the overseer
from his English friends was this one."

She held out an illustrated journal--a Sunday organ of sporting opinion--
and pointed to a portrait engraved on the centre page.  It represented
a broad-shouldered, bearded man, dressed in the fashion affected by turfites
and lovers of horse-flesh, standing beside a pedestal on which were piled
a variety of racing cups and trophies.  John Rex read underneath
this work of art the name,

MR. RICHARD DEVINE,
THE LEVIATHAN OF THE TURF.

"And you recognized me?"

"The portrait was sufficiently like you to induce me to make inquiries,
and when I found that Mr. Richard Devine had suddenly returned
from a mysterious absence of fourteen years, I set to work in earnest.
I have spent a deal of money, Jack, but I've got you!"

"You have been clever in finding me out; I give you credit for that."

"There is not a single act of your life, John Rex, that I do not know,"
she continued, with heat.  "I have traced you from the day you stole out
of my house until now.  I know your continental trips, your journeyings
here and there in search of a lost clue.  I pieced together the puzzle,
as you have done, and I know that, by some foul fortune, you have stolen
the secret of a dead man to ruin an innocent and virtuous family."

"Hullo! hullo!" said John Rex.  "Since when have you learnt to talk of virtue?"

"It is well to taunt, but you have got to the end of your tether now, Jack.
I have communicated with the woman whose son's fortune you have stolen.
I expect to hear from Lady Devine in a day or so."

"Well--and when you hear?"

"I shall give back the fortune at the price of her silence!"

"Ho! ho! Will you?"

"Yes; and if my husband does not come back and live with me quietly,
I shall call the police."

John Rex sprang up.  "Who will believe you, idiot?" he cried.
"I'll have you sent to gaol as an impostor."

"You forget, my dear," she returned, playing coquettishly with her rings,
and glancing sideways as she spoke, "that you have already acknowledged me
as your wife before the landlord and the servants.  It is too late
for that sort of thing.  Oh, my dear Jack, you think you are very clever,
but I am as clever as you."

Smothering a curse, he sat down beside her.  "Listen, Sarah.  What is the use
of fighting like a couple of children.  I am rich--"

"So am I." "Well, so much the better.  We will join our riches together.
I admit that I was a fool and a cur to leave you; but I played for
a great stake.  The name of Richard Devine was worth nearly half a million
in money.  It is mine.  I won it.  Share it with me! Sarah, you and I defied
the world years ago.  Don't let us quarrel now.  I was ungrateful.  Forget it.
We know by this time that we are not either of us angels.  We started
in life together--do you remember, Sally, when I met you first?--determined
to make money.  We have succeeded.  Why then set to work to destroy
each other?  You are handsomer than ever, I have not lost my wits.
Is there any need for you to tell the world that I am a runaway convict,
and that you are--well, no, of course there is no need.  Kiss and be friends,
Sarah.  I would have escaped you if I could, I admit.  You have found me out.
I accept the position.  You claim me as your husband.  You say you are
Mrs. Richard Devine.  Very well, I admit it.  You have all your life
wanted to be a great lady.  Now is your chance!" Much as she had cause
to hate him, well as she knew his treacherous and ungrateful character,
little as she had reason to trust him, her strange and distempered affection
for the scoundrel came upon her again with gathering strength.
As she sat beside him, listening to the familiar tones of the voice
she had learned to love, greedily drinking in the promise of a future fidelity
which she was well aware was made but to be broken, her memory recalled
the past days of trust and happiness, and her woman's fancy once more
invested the selfish  villain she had reclaimed with those attributes
which had enchained her wilful and wayward affections.  The unselfish devotion
which had marked her conduct to the swindler and convict was, indeed,
her one redeeming virtue; and perhaps she felt dimly--poor woman--that
it were better for her to cling to that, if she lost all the world beside.
Her wish for vengeance melted under the influence of these thoughts.
The bitterness of despised love, the shame and anger of desertion,
ingratitude, and betrayal, all vanished.  The tears of a sweet forgiveness
trembled in her eyes, the unreasoning love of her sex--faithful to nought
but love, and faithful to love in death--shook in her voice.
She took his coward hand and kissed it, pardoning all his baseness
with the sole reproach, "Oh, John, John, you might have trusted me after all?"

John Rex had conquered, and he smiled as he embraced her.  "I wish I had,"
said he; "it would have saved me many regrets; but never mind.  Sit down;
now we will have supper."

"Your preference has one drawback, Sarah," he said, when the meal
was concluded, and the two sat down to consider their immediate course
of action, "it doubles the chance of detection."

"How so?"

"People have accepted me without inquiry, but I am afraid not without dislike.
Mr. Francis Wade, my uncle, never liked me; and I fear I have not played
my cards well with Lady Devine.  When they find I have a mysterious wife
their dislike will become suspicion.  Is it likely that I should have
been married all these years and not have informed them?"

"Very unlikely," returned Sarah calmly, "and that is just the reason
why you have not been married all these years.  Really," she added,
with a laugh, "the male intellect is very dull.  You have already told
ten thousand lies about this affair, and yet you don't see your way
to tell one more."

"What do you mean?"

"Why, my dear Richard, you surely cannot have forgotten that you married me
last year on the Continent? By the way, it was last year that you were there,
was it not?  I am the daughter of a poor clergyman of the Church of England;
name--anything you please- and you met me--where shall we say?  Baden, Aix,
Brussels?  Cross the Alps, if you like, dear, and say Rome."  John Rex
put his hand to his head.  "Of course--I am stupid," said he.  "I have
not been well lately.  Too much brandy, I suppose."

"Well, we will alter all that," she returned with a laugh,
which her anxious glance at him belied.  "You are going to be domestic now,
Jack--I mean Dick."

"Go on," said he impatiently.  "What then?"

"Then, having settled these little preliminaries, you take me up to London
and introduce me to your relatives and friends."

He started.  "A bold game."

"Bold!  Nonsense! The only safe one.  People don't, as a rule, suspect
unless one is mysterious.  You must do it; I have arranged for your doing it.
The waiters here all know me as your wife.  There is not the least danger--
unless, indeed, you are married already?" she added, with a quick
and angry suspicion.

"You need not be alarmed.  I was not such a fool as to marry another woman
while you were alive--had I even seen one I would have cared to marry.
But what of Lady Devine?  You say you have told her."

"I have told her to communicate with Mrs. Carr, Post Office, Torquay,
in order to hear something to her advantage.  If you had been rebellious,
John, the 'something' would have been a letter from me telling her
who you really are.  Now you have proved obedient, the 'something'
will be a begging letter of a sort which she has already received hundreds,
and which in all probability she will not even answer.  What do you think
of that, Mr. Richard Devine?"

"You deserve success, Sarah," said the old schemer, in genuine admiration.
"By Jove, this is something like the old days, when we were
Mr. and Mrs. Crofton."

"Or Mr. and Mrs. Skinner, eh, John?" she said, with as much tenderness
in her voice as though she had been a virtuous matron recalling her honeymoon.
"That was an unlucky name, wasn't it, dear?  You should have taken
my advice there." And immersed in recollection of their past rogueries,
the worthy pair pensively smiled.  Rex was the first to awake
from that pleasant reverie.

"I will be guided by you, then," he said.  "What next?"

"Next--for, as you say, my presence doubles the danger--we will contrive
to withdraw quietly from England.  The introduction  to your mother over,
and Mr. Francis disposed of, we will go to Hampstead, and live there
for a while.  During that time you must turn into cash as much property
as you dare.  We will then go abroad for the 'season'--and stop there.
After a year or so on the Continent you can write to our agent to sell
more property; and, finally, when we are regarded as permanent absentees--
and three or four years will bring that about--we will get rid of everything,
and slip over to America.  Then you can endow a charity if you like,
or build a church to the memory of the man you have displaced."

John Rex burst into a laugh.  "An excellent plan.  I like the idea
of the charity--the Devine Hospital, eh?"

"By the way, how did you find out the particulars of this man's life.
He was burned in the Hydaspes, wasn't he?"

"No," said Rex, with an air of pride.  "He was transported in the Malabar
under the name of Rufus Dawes.  You remember him.  It is a long story.
The particulars weren't numerous, and if the old lady had been half sharp
she would have bowled me out.  But the fact was she wanted to find
the fellow alive, and was willing to take a good deal on trust.  I'll tell you
all about it another time.  I think I'll go to bed now; I'm tired,
and my head aches as though it would split."

"Then it is decided that you follow my directions?"

"Yes."

She rose and placed her hand on the bell.  "What are you going to do?"
he said uneasily.

"I am going to do nothing.  You are going to telegraph to your servants
to have the house in London prepared for your wife, who will return with you
the day after to-morrow."

John Rex stayed her hand with a sudden angry gesture.  "This is all
devilish fine," he said, "but suppose it fails?"

"That is your affair, John.  You need not go on with this business at all,
unless you like.  I had rather you didn't."

"What the deuce am I to do, then?"

"I am not as rich as you are, but, with my station and so on,
I am worth seven thousand a year.  Come back to Australia with me,
and let these poor people enjoy their own again.  Ah, John, it is the best
thing to do, believe me.  We can afford to be honest now."

"A fine scheme!" cried he.  "Give up half a million of money, and go back
to Australia! You must be mad!"

"Then telegraph."

"But, my dear--"

"Hush, here's the waiter."

As he wrote, John Rex felt gloomily that, though he had succeeded
in recalling her affection, that affection was as imperious as of yore.  




CHAPTER XI.

EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH.



December 7th.--I have made up my mind to leave this place, to bury myself
again in the bush, I suppose, and await extinction.  I try to think
that the reason for this determination is the frightful condition of misery
existing among the prisoners; that because I am daily horrified and sickened
by scenes of torture and infamy, I decide to go away; that, feeling myself
powerless to save others, I wish to spare myself.  But in this journal,
in which I bind myself to write nothing but truth, I am forced to confess
that these are not the reasons.  I will write the reason plainly:
"I covet my neighbour's wife." It does not look well thus written.
It looks hideous.  In my own breast I find numberless excuses for my passion.
I said to myself, "My neighbour does not love his wife, and her unloved life
is misery.  She is forced to live in the frightful seclusion
of this accursed island, and she is dying for want of companionship.
She feels that I understand and appreciate her, that I could love her
as she deserves, that I could render her happy.  I feel that I have met
the only woman who has power to touch my heart, to hold me back from the ruin
into which I am about to plunge, to make me useful to my fellows--a man,
and not a drunkard." Whispering these conclusions to myself, I am urged
to brave public opinion, and make two lives happy.  I say to myself,
or rather my desires say to me--"What sin is there in this? Adultery?
No; for a marriage without love is the coarsest of all adulteries.
What tie binds a man and woman together--that formula of license
pronounced by the priest, which the law has recognized as a 'legal bond'?
Surely not this only, for marriage is but a partnership--a contract
of mutual fidelity--and in all contracts the violation of the terms
of the agreement by one of  the contracting persons absolves the other.
Mrs. Frere is then absolved, by her husband's act.  I cannot but think so.
But is she willing to risk the shame of divorce or legal offence? Perhaps.
Is she fitted by temperament to bear such a burden of contumely as must needs
fall upon her? Will she not feel disgust at the man who entrapped her
into shame? Do not the comforts which surround her compensate for the lack
of affections?"  And so the torturing catechism continues, until I am
driven mad with doubt, love, and despair.

Of course I am wrong; of course I outrage my character as a priest;
of course I endanger--according to the creed I teach--my soul and hers.
But priests, unluckily, have hearts and passions as well as other men.
Thank God, as yet, I have never expressed my madness in words.
What a fate is mine! When I am in her presence I am in torment;
when I am absent from her my imagination pictures her surrounded
by a thousand graces that are not hers, but belong to all the women
of my dreams--to Helen, to Juliet, to Rosalind.  Fools that we are
of our own senses! When I think of her I blush; when I hear her name
my heart leaps, and I grow pale.  Love! What is the love of two pure souls,
scarce conscious of the Paradise into which they have fallen,
to this maddening delirium? I can understand the poison of Circe's cup;
it is the sweet-torment of a forbidden love like mine!  Away gross materialism,
in which I have so long schooled myself! I, who laughed at passion
as the outcome of temperament and easy living--I, who thought in my intellect,
to sound all the depths and shoals of human feeling--I, who analysed
my own soul--scoffed at my own yearnings for an immortality--am forced
to deify the senseless power of my creed, and believe in God, that I may pray
to Him.  I know now why men reject the cold impersonality that reason
tells us rules the world--it is because they love.  To die, and be no more;
to die, and rendered into dust, be blown about the earth; to die
and leave our love defenceless and forlorn, till the bright soul
that smiled to ours is smothered in the earth that made it!  No!  To love
is life eternal.  God, I believe in Thee!  Aid me!  Pity me!  Sinful wretch
that I am, to have denied Thee!  See me on my knees before Thee!  Pity me,
or let me die!

December 9th.--I have been visiting the two condemned prisoners,
Dawes and Bland, and praying with them.  O Lord, let me save one soul
that may plead with Thee for mine!  Let  me draw one being alive
out of this pit!  I weep--I weary Thee with my prayers, O Lord!
Look down upon me.  Grant me a sign.  Thou didst it in old times to men
who were not more fervent in their supplications than am I.  So says Thy Book.
Thy Book which I believe--which I believe.  Grant me a sign--one little sign,
O Lord!--I will not see her.  I have sworn it.  Thou knowest my grief--
my agony--my despair.  Thou knowest why I love her.  Thou knowest how
I strive to make her hate me.  Is that not a sacrifice?  I am so lonely--
a lonely man, with but one creature that he loves--yet, what is mortal love
to Thee?  Cruel and implacable, Thou sittest in the heavens men have built
for Thee, and scornest them!  Will not all the burnings and slaughters
of the saints appease Thee?  Art Thou not sated with blood and tears,
O God of vengeance, of wrath, and of despair! Kind Christ, pity me.
Thou wilt--for Thou wast human!  Blessed Saviour, at whose feet knelt
the Magdalen!  Divinity, who, most divine in Thy despair, called on Thy cruel
God to save Thee--by the memory of that moment when Thou didst deem Thyself
forsaken--forsake not me! Sweet Christ, have mercy on Thy sinful servant.

I can write no more.  I will pray to Thee with my lips.  I will shriek
my supplications to Thee.  I will call upon Thee so loud that all the world
shall hear me, and wonder at Thy silence--unjust and unmerciful God!

December 14th.--What blasphemies are these which I have uttered in my despair?
Horrible madness that has left me prostrate, to what heights of frenzy
didst thou not drive my soul!  Like him of old time, who wandered
among the tombs, shrieking and tearing himself, I have been possessed
by a devil.  For a week I have been unconscious of aught save torture.
I have gone about my daily duties as one who in his dreams repeats
the accustomed action of the day, and knows it not.  Men have looked at me
strangely.  They look at me strangely now.  Can it be that my disease
of drunkenness has become the disease of insanity?  Am I mad, or do I
but verge on madness?  O Lord, whom in my agonies I have confessed,
leave me my intellect--let me not become a drivelling spectacle for the curious
to point at or to pity!  At least, in mercy, spare me a little.
Let not my punishment overtake me here.   Let her memories of me be clouded
with a sense of my rudeness or my brutality; let me for ever seem to her the
ungrateful ruffian I strive to show myself--but let her not behold me--that!




CHAPTER XII.

THE STRANGE BEHAVIOUR OF Mr. NORTH.



On or about the 8th of December, Mrs. Frere noticed a sudden and unaccountable
change in the manner of the chaplain.  He came to her one afternoon, and,
after talking for some time, in a vague and unconnected manner,
about the miseries of the prison and the wretched condition of some
of the prisoners, began to question her abruptly concerning Rufus Dawes.

"I do not wish to think of him," said she, with a shudder.  "I have
the strangest, the most horrible dreams about him.  He is a bad man.
He tried to murder me when a child, and had it not been for my husband,
he would have done so.  I have only seen him once since then--at Hobart Town,
when he was taken." "He sometimes speaks to me of you," said North, eyeing her.
"He asked me once to give him a rose plucked in your garden."

Sylvia turned pale.  "And you gave it him?"

"Yes, I gave it him.  Why not?"

"It was valueless, of course, but still--to a convict?"

"You are not angry?"

"Oh, no!  Why should I be angry?"  she laughed constrainedly.  "It was
a strange fancy for the man to have, that's all."

"I suppose you would not give me another rose, if I asked you."

"Why not?" said she, turning away uneasily.  "You?  You are a gentleman."

"Not I--you don't know me."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that it would be better for you if you had never seen me."

"Mr. North!" Terrified at the wild gleam in his eyes, she had risen hastily.
"You are talking very strangely."

 "Oh, don't be alarmed, madam.  I am not drunk!"--he pronounced the word
 with a fierce energy.  "I had better leave you.  Indeed, I think the less
 we see of each other the better."

Deeply wounded and astonished at this extraordinary outburst,
Sylvia allowed him to stride away without a word.  She saw him pass through
the garden and slam the little gate, but she did not see the agony
on his face, or the passionate gesture with which--when out of eyeshot--
he lamented the voluntary abasement of himself before her.  She thought
over his conduct with growing fear.  It was not possible that he was
intoxicated--such a vice was the last one of which she could have believed
him guilty.  It was more probable that some effects of the fever,
which had recently confined him to his house, yet lingered.  So she thought;
and, thinking, was alarmed to realize of how much importance the well-being
of this man was to her.

The next day he met her, and, bowing, passed swiftly.  This pained her.
Could she have offended him by some unlucky word?  She made Maurice ask him
to dinner, and, to her astonishment, he pleaded illness as an excuse
for not coming.  Her pride was hurt, and she sent him back his books and music.
A curiosity that was unworthy of her compelled her to ask the servant
who carried the parcel what the clergyman had said.  "He said nothing--
only laughed."   Laughed!  In scorn of her foolishness!  His conduct
was ungentlemanly and intemperate.  She would forget, as speedily as possible,
that such a being had ever existed.  This resolution taken, she was
unusually patient with her husband.

So a week passed, and Mr. North did not return.  Unluckily for the poor wretch,
the very self-sacrifice he had made brought about the precise condition
of things which he was desirous to avoid.  It is possible that,
had the acquaintance between them continued on the same staid footing,
it would have followed the lot of most acquaintanceships of the kind--
other circumstances and other scenes might have wiped out the memory
of all but common civilities between them, and Sylvia might never
have discovered that she had for the chaplain any other feeling
but that of esteem.  But the very fact of the sudden wrenching away
of her soul-companion, showed her how barren was the solitary life
to which she had been fated.  Her husband, she had long ago admitted,
with bitter self-communings, was utterly unsuited to her.  She  could find
in his society no enjoyment, and for the sympathy which she needed
was compelled to turn elsewhere.  She understood that his love for her
had burnt itself out--she confessed, with intensity of self-degradation,
that his apparent affection had been born of sensuality, and had perished
in the fires it had itself kindled.  Many women have, unhappily, made
some such discovery as this, but for most women there is some
distracting occupation.  Had it been Sylvia's fate to live in the midst
of fashion and society, she would have found relief in the conversation
of the witty, or the homage of the distinguished.  Had fortune cast her lot
in a city, Mrs. Frere might have become one of those charming women
who collect around their supper-tables whatever of male intellect
is obtainable, and who find the husband admirably useful to open
his own champagne bottles.  The celebrated women who have stepped out
of their domestic circles to enchant or astonish the world, have
almost invariably been cursed with unhappy homes.  But poor Sylvia
was not destined to this fortune.  Cast back upon herself,
she found no surcease of pain in her own imaginings, and meeting with a man
sufficiently her elder to encourage her to talk, and sufficiently clever
to induce her to seek his society and his advice, she learnt,
for the first time, to forget her own griefs; for the first time she suffered
her nature to expand under the sun of a congenial influence.  This sun,
suddenly withdrawn, her soul, grown accustomed to the warmth and light,
shivered at the gloom, and she looked about her in dismay at the dull
and barren prospect of life which lay before her.  In a word, she found
that the society of North had become so far necessary to her that
to be deprived of it was a grief--notwithstanding that her husband
remained to console her.

After a week of such reflections, the barrenness of life grew insupportable
to her, and one day she came to Maurice and begged to be sent back
to Hobart Town.  "I cannot live in this horrible island," she said.
"I am getting ill.  Let me go to my father for a few months, Maurice."
Maurice consented.  His wife was looking ill, and Major Vickers
was an old man--a rich old man--who loved his only daughter.  It was not
undesirable that Mrs. Frere should visit her father; indeed, so little
sympathy was there between the pair that, the first astonishment over,
Maurice felt rather glad to get rid of her for a while.  "You can go back
in the Lady Franklin if you like,  my dear," he said.  "I expect her
every day."  At this decision--much to his surprise--she kissed him
with more show of affection than she had manifested since the death
of her child.

The news of the approaching departure became known, but still North
did not make his appearance.  Had it not been a step beneath the dignity
of a woman, Mrs. Frere would have gone herself and asked him the meaning
of his unaccountable rudeness, but there was just sufficient morbidity
in the sympathy she had for him to restrain her from an act which
a young girl--though not more innocent- would have dared without hesitation.
Calling one day upon the wife of the surgeon, however, she met the chaplain
face to face, and with the consummate art of acting which most women possess,
rallied him upon his absence from her house.  The behaviour of the poor devil,
thus stabbed to the heart, was curious.  He forgot gentlemanly behaviour
and the respect due to a woman, flung one despairingly angry glance
at her and abruptly retired.  Sylvia flushed crimson, and endeavoured
to excuse North on account of his recent illness.  The surgeon's wife
looked askance, and turned the conversation.  The next time Sylvia bowed
to this lady, she got a chilling salute in return that made her blood boil.
"I wonder how I have offended Mrs. Field?" she asked Maurice.
"She almost cut me to-day."  "Oh, the old cat!" returned Maurice.
"What does it matter if she did?"  However, a few days afterwards,
it seemed that it did matter, for Maurice called upon Field and conversed
seriously with him.  The issue of the conversation being reported
to Mrs. Frere, the lady wept indignant tears of wounded pride and shame.
It appeared that North had watched her out of the house, returned,
and related--in a "stumbling, hesitating way", Mrs. Field said--how he
disliked Mrs. Frere, how he did not want to visit her, and how flighty
and reprehensible such conduct was in a married woman of her rank and station.
This act of baseness--or profound nobleness--achieved its purpose.
Sylvia noticed the unhappy priest no more.  Between the Commandant
and the chaplain now arose a coolness, and Frere set himself,
by various petty tyrannies, to disgust North, and compel him to a resignation
of his office.  The convict-gaolers speedily marked the difference
in the treatment of the chaplain, and their demeanour changed.
For respect was substituted insolence; for alacrity, sullenness;
for prompt obedience, impertinent intrusion.  The men whom North favoured
were selected as special subjects for harshness, and for a prisoner to be seen
talking to the clergyman was sufficient to ensure for him a series
of tyrannies.  The result of this was that North saw the souls he laboured
to save slipping back into the gulf; beheld the men he had half won
to love him meet him with averted faces; discovered that to show interest
in a prisoner was to injure him, not to serve him.  The unhappy man
grew thinner and paler under this ingenious torment.  He had deprived himself
of that love which, guilty though it might be, was, nevertheless,
the only true love he had known; and he found that, having won this victory,
he had gained the hatred of all living creatures with whom he came in contact.
The authority of the Commandant was so supreme that men lived
but by the breath of his nostrils.  To offend him was to perish and the man
whom the Commandant hated must be hated also by all those who wished to exist
in peace.  There was but one being who was not to be turned from
his allegiance--the convict murderer, Rufus Dawes, who awaited death.
For many days he had remained mute, broken down beneath his weight of sorrow
or of sullenness; but North, bereft of other love and sympathy,
strove with that fighting soul, if haply he might win it back to peace.
It seemed to the fancy of the priest--a fancy distempered, perhaps, by excess,
or superhumanly exalted by mental agony--that this convict, over whom
he had wept, was given to him as a hostage for his own salvation.
"I must save him or perish," he said.  "I must save him, though I redeem him
with my own blood."

Frere, unable to comprehend the reason of the calmness with which
the doomed felon met his taunts and torments, thought that he was
shamming piety to gain some indulgence of meat and drink, and redoubled
his severity.  He ordered Dawes to be taken out to work just before the hour
at which the chaplain was accustomed to visit him.  He pretended that the man
was "dangerous", and directed a gaoler to be present at all interviews,
"lest the chaplain might be murdered".  He issued an order that all
civil officers should obey the challenges of convicts acting as watchmen;
and North, coming to pray with his penitent, would be stopped ten times
by grinning felons, who, putting their faces within a foot of his,
would roar out, "Who goes there?" and burst out laughing at the reply.
Under pretence  of watching more carefully over the property of the chaplain,
he directed that any convict, acting as constable, might at any time
"search everywhere and anywhere" for property supposed to be in the possession
of a prisoner.  The chaplain's servant was a prisoner, of course;
and North's drawers were ransacked twice in one week by Troke.
North met these impertinences with unruffled brow, and Frere could in no way
account for his obstinacy, until the arrival of the Lady Franklin explained
the chaplain's apparent coolness.  He had sent in his resignation
two months before, and the saintly Meekin had been appointed in his stead.
Frere, unable to attack the clergyman, and indignant at the manner
in which he had been defeated, revenged himself upon Rufus Dawes.




CHAPTER XIII.

MR. NORTH SPEAKS.



The method and manner of Frere's revenge became a subject of whispered
conversation on the island.  It was reported that North had been forbidden
to visit the convict, but that he had refused to accept the prohibition,
and by a threat of what he would do when the returning vessel had landed him
in Hobart Town, had compelled the Commandant to withdraw his order.
The Commandant, however, speedily discovered in Rufus Dawes signs
of insubordination, and set to work again to reduce still further
the "spirit" he had so ingeniously "broken".  The unhappy convict
was deprived of food, was kept awake at nights, was put to the hardest labour,
was loaded with the heaviest irons.  Troke, with devilish malice,
suggested that, if the tortured wretch would decline to see the chaplain,
some amelioration of his condition might be effected; but his suggestions
were in vain.  Fully believing that his death was certain, Dawes clung
to North as the saviour of his agonized soul, and rejected all such
insidious overtures.  Enraged at this obstinacy, Frere sentenced his victim
to the "spread eagle" and the "stretcher".

Now the rumour of the obduracy of this undaunted convict  who had been
recalled to her by the clergyman at their strange interview, had reached
Sylvia's ears.  She had heard gloomy hints of the punishments inflicted
on him by her husband's order, and as--constantly revolving in her mind
was that last conversation with the chaplain--she wondered at
the prisoner's strange fancy for a flower, her brain began to thrill
with those undefined and dreadful memories which had haunted her childhood.
What was the link between her and this murderous villain?  How came it
that she felt at times so strange a sympathy for his fate, and that he--
who had attempted her life--cherished so tender a remembrance of her
as to beg for a flower which her hand had touched?

She questioned her husband concerning the convict's misdoings,
but with the petulant brutality which he invariably displayed when the name
of Rufus Dawes intruded itself into their conversation, Maurice Frere
harshly refused to satisfy her.  This but raised her curiosity higher.
She reflected how bitter he had always seemed against this man--she remembered
how, in the garden at Hobart Town, the hunted wretch had caught her dress
with words of assured confidence--she recollected the fragment of cloth
he passionately flung from him, and which her affianced lover
had contemptuously tossed into the stream.  The name of "Dawes", detested
as it had become to her, bore yet some strange association of comfort and hope.
What secret lurked behind the twilight that had fallen upon her childish
memories?  Deprived of the advice of North--to whom, a few weeks back,
she would have confided her misgivings--she resolved upon a project that,
for her, was most distasteful.  She would herself visit the gaol and judge
how far the rumours of her husband's cruelty were worthy of credit.

One sultry afternoon, when the Commandant had gone on a visit of inspection,
Troke, lounging at the door of the New Prison, beheld, with surprise,
the figure of the Commandant's lady.

"What is it, mam?" he asked, scarcely able to believe his eyes.

"I want to see the prisoner Dawes."

Troke's jaw fell.

"See Dawes?" he repeated.

"Yes.  Where is he?"

Troke was preparing a lie.  The imperious voice, and the clear,
steady gaze, confused him.

 "He's here."

"Let me see him."

"He's--he's under punishment, mam."

"What do you mean?  Are they flogging him?"

"No; but he's dangerous, mam.  The Commandant--"

"Do you mean to open the door or not, Mr. Troke?"

Troke grew more confused.  It was evident that he was most unwilling
to open the door.  "The Commandant has given strict orders--"

"Do you wish me to complain to the Commandant?" cries Sylvia,
with a touch of her old spirit, and jumped hastily at the conclusion
that the gaolers were, perhaps, torturing the convict for their own
entertainment.  "Open the door at once!--at once!"

Thus commanded, Troke, with a hasty growl of its "being no affair of his,
and he hoped Mrs. Frere would tell the captain how it happened"
flung open the door of a cell on the right hand of the doorway.
It was so dark that, at first, Sylvia could distinguish nothing but
the outline of a framework, with something stretched upon it that resembled
a human body.  Her first thought was that the man was dead,
but this was not so--he groaned.  Her eyes, accustoming themselves
to the gloom, began to see what the "punishment" was.  Upon the floor
was placed an iron frame about six feet long, and two and a half feet wide,
with round iron bars, placed transversely, about twelve inches apart.
The man she came to seek was bound in a horizontal position upon this frame,
with his neck projecting over the end of it.  If he allowed his head to hang,
the blood rushed to his brain, and suffocated him, while the effort
to keep it raised strained every muscle to agony pitch.  His face was purple,
and he foamed at the mouth.  Sylvia uttered a cry.  "This is no punishment;
it's murder!  Who ordered this?"

"The Commandant," said Troke sullenly.

"I don't believe it.  Loose him!"

"I daren't mam," said Troke.

"Loose him, I say!  Hailey!--you, sir, there!"  The noise had brought
several warders to the spot.  "Do you hear me?  Do you know who I am?
Loose him, I say!" In her eagerness and compassion she was on her knees
by the side of the infernal machine, plucking at the ropes
with her delicate fingers.   "Wretches, you have cut his flesh!  He is dying!
Help!  You have killed him!"  The prisoner, in fact, seeing this angel
of mercy stooping over him, and hearing close to him the tones of a voice
that for seven years he had heard but in his dreams, had fainted.
Troke and Hailey, alarmed by her vehemence, dragged the stretcher out
into the light, and hastily cut the lashings.  Dawes rolled off like a log,
and his head fell against Mrs. Frere.  Troke roughly pulled him aside,
and called for water.  Sylvia, trembling with sympathy and pale with passion,
turned upon the crew.  "How long has he been like this?"

"An hour," said Troke.

"A lie!" said a stern voice at the door.  "He has been there nine hours!"

"Wretches!" cried Sylvia, "you shall hear more of this.  Oh, oh!
I am sick!"--she felt for the wall--"I--I--" North watched her with agony
on his face, but did not move.  "I faint.  I--"--she uttered a despairing cry
that was not without a touch of anger.  "Mr. North! do you not see?
Oh! Take me home--take me home!" and she would have fallen across the body
of the tortured prisoner had not North caught her in his arms.

Rufus Dawes, awaking from his stupor, saw, in the midst of a sunbeam
which penetrated a window in the corridor, the woman who came to save his body
supported by the priest who came to save his soul; and staggering to his knees,
he stretched out his hands with a hoarse cry.  Perhaps something in the action
brought back to the dimmed remembrance of the Commandant's wife the image
of a similar figure stretching forth its hands to a frightened child
in the mysterious far-off time.  She started, and pushing back her hair,
bent a wistful, terrified gaze upon the face of the kneeling man,
as though she would fain read there an explanation of the shadowy memory
which haunted her.  It is possible that she would have spoken,
but North--thinking the excitement had produced one of those hysterical crises
which were common to her--gently drew her, still gazing, back towards the gate.
The convict's arms fell, and an undefinable presentiment of evil chilled him
as he beheld the priest--emotion pallid in his cheeks--slowly draw
the fair young creature from out the sunlight into the grim shadow
of the heavy archway.  For an instant the gloom swallowed them, and it seemed
to Dawes that the strange wild man of God had in that instant become a man
of Evil--blighting the brightness and the beauty of the innocence that clung
to him.  For an instant--and then they passed out of the prison archway
into the free air of heaven--and the sunlight glowed golden on their faces.

"You are ill," said North.  "You will faint.  Why do you look so wildly?"

"What is it?" she whispered, more in answer to her own thoughts than to
his question--"what is it that links me to that man?  What deed--what terror--
what memory?  I tremble with crowding thoughts, that die ere they can whisper
to me.  Oh, that prison!"

"Look up; we are in the sunshine."

She passed her hand across her brow, sighing heavily, as one awaking
from a disturbed slumber--shuddered, and withdrew her arm from his.
North interpreted the action correctly, and the blood rushed to his face.
"Pardon me, you cannot walk alone; you will fall.  I will leave you
at the gate."

In truth she would have fallen had he not again assisted her.  She turned
upon him eyes whose reproachful sorrow had almost forced him to a confession,
but he bowed his head and held silence.  They reached the house,
and he placed her tenderly in a chair.  "Now you are safe, madam,
I will leave you."

She burst into tears.  "Why do you treat me thus, Mr. North?  What have I done
to make you hate me?"

"Hate you!" said North, with trembling lips.  "Oh, no, I do not--do not
hate you.  I am rude in my speech, abrupt in my manner.  You must forget it,
and--and me."  A horse's feet crashed upon the gravel, and an instant after
Maurice Frere burst into the room.  Returning from the Cascades,
he had met Troke, and learned the release of the prisoner.  Furious
at this usurpation of authority by his wife, his self-esteem wounded
by the thought that she had witnessed his mean revenge upon the man
he had so infamously wronged, and his natural brutality enhanced by brandy,
he had made for the house at full gallop, determined to assert his authority.
Blind with rage, he saw no one but his wife.  "What the devil's this I hear?
You have been meddling in my business!  You release prisoners!  You--"

"Captain Frere!" said North, stepping forward to assert the restraining
presence of a stranger.  Frere started, astonished at the intrusion
of the chaplain.  Here was another outrage of his dignity, another insult
to his supreme authority.  In its passion, his gross mind leapt
to the worst conclusion.  "You here, too!  What do you want here--with my wife!
This is your quarrel, is it?"  His eyes glanced wrathfully from one
to the other; and he strode towards North.  "You infernal hypocritical
lying scoundrel, if it wasn't for your black coat, I'd--"

"Maurice!" cried Sylvia, in an agony of shame and terror, striving to place
a restraining hand upon his arm.  He turned upon her with so fiercely infamous
a curse that North, pale with righteous rage, seemed prompted to strike
the burly ruffian to the earth.  For a moment, the two men faced each other,
and then Frere, muttering threats of vengeance against each and all--convicts,
gaolers, wife, and priest--flung the suppliant woman violently from him,
and rushed from the room.  She fell heavily against the wall, and as
the chaplain raised her, he heard the hoof-strokes of the departing horse.

"Oh," cried Sylvia, covering her face with trembling hands,
"let me leave this place!"

North, enfolding her in his arms, strove to soothe her with incoherent words
of comfort.  Dizzy with the blow she had received, she clung to him sobbing.
Twice he tried to tear himself away, but had he loosed his hold
she would have fallen.  He could not hold her--bruised, suffering,
and in tears--thus against his heart, and keep silence.  In a torrent
of agonized eloquence the story of his love burst from his lips.
"Why should you be thus tortured?" he cried.  "Heaven never willed you
to be mated to that boor--you, whose life should be all sunshine.
Leave him--leave him.  He has cast you off.  We have both suffered.
Let us leave this dreadful place--this isthmus between earth and hell!
I will give you happiness."

"I am going," she said faintly.  "I have already arranged to go."

North trembled.  "It was not of my seeking.  Fate has willed it.
We go together!"

They looked at each other--she felt the fever of his blood, she read
his passion in his eyes, she comprehended the "hatred" he had affected
for her, and, deadly pale, drew back the cold hand he held.

"Go!" she murmured.  "If you love me, leave  me--leave me!  Do not see me
or speak to me again--" her silence added the words she could not utter,
"till then."




CHAPTER XIV.

GETTING READY FOR SEA.



Maurice Frere's passion had spent itself in that last act of violence.
He did not return to the prison, as he promised himself, but turned
into the road that led to the Cascades.  He repented him of his suspicions.
There was nothing strange in the presence of the chaplain.  Sylvia had always
liked the man, and an apology for his conduct had doubtless removed her anger.
To make a mountain out of a molehill was the act of an idiot.  It was natural
that she should release Dawes--women were so tender-hearted.  A few
well-chosen, calmly-uttered platitudes anent the necessity for the treatment
that, to those unaccustomed to the desperate wickedness of convicts,
must appear harsh, would have served his turn far better than bluster
and abuse.  Moreover, North was to sail in the Lady Franklin, and might put
in execution his threats of official complaint, unless he was carefully
dealt with.  To put Dawes again to the torture would be to show
to Troke and his friends that the "Commandant's wife" had acted
without the "Commandant's authority", and that must not be shown.
He would now return and patch up a peace.  His wife would sail in the same
vessel with North, and he would in a few days be left alone on the island
to pursue his "discipline" unchecked.  With this intent he returned
to the prison, and gravely informed poor Troke that he was astonished
at his barbarity.  "Mrs. Frere, who most luckily had appointed to meet me
this evening at the prison, tells me that the poor devil Dawes had been
on the stretcher since seven o'clock this morning."

"You ordered it fust thing, yer honour," said Troke.

"Yes, you fool, but I didn't order you to keep the man there for nine hours,
did I?  Why, you scoundrel, you might have killed him!"  Troke scratched
his head in bewilderment.  "Take his irons off, and put him in a separate cell
in the old gaol.  If a man is a murderer, that is no reason you should take
the law into your own hands, is it?  You'd better take care, Mr. Troke."
On the way back he met the chaplain, who, seeing him, made for a by-path
in curious haste.  "Halloo!" roared Frere.  "Hi!  Mr. North!" Mr. North paused,
and the Commandant made at him abruptly.  "Look here, sir, I was rude to you
just now--devilish rude.  Most ungentlemanly of me.  I must apologize."
North bowed, without speaking, and tried to pass.

"You must excuse my violence," Frere went on.  "I'm bad-tempered, and I didn't
like my wife interfering.  Women, don't you know, don't see these things--
don't understand these scoundrels."  North again bowed.  "Why, d--n it,
how savage you look!  Quite ghastly, bigod!  I must have said most outrageous
things.  Forget and forgive, you know.  Come home and have some dinner."

"I cannot enter your house again, sir," said North, in tones more agitated
than the occasion would seem to warrant.

Frere shrugged his great shoulders with a clumsy affectation of good humour,
and held out his hand.  "Well, shake hands, parson.  You'll have to take care
of Mrs. Frere on the voyage, and we may as well make up our differences
before you start.  Shake hands."

"Let me pass, sir!" cried North, with heightened colour; and ignoring
the proffered hand, strode savagely on.

"You've a d--d fine temper for a parson," said Frere to himself.
"However, if you won't, you won't.  Hang me if I'll ask you again."
Nor, when he reached home, did he fare better in his efforts at reconciliation
with his wife.  Sylvia met him with the icy front of a woman whose pride
has been wounded too deeply for tears.

"Say no more about it," she said.  "I am going to my father.  If you want
to explain your conduct, explain it to him."

"Come, Sylvia," he urged; "I was a brute, I know.  Forgive me."

"It is useless to ask me," she said; "I cannot.  I have forgiven you
so much during the last seven years."

He attempted to embrace her, but she withdrew herself loathingly from his arms.
He swore a great oath at her, and, too obstinate to argue farther,
sulked.  Blunt, coming in about some ship matters, the pair drank rum.
Sylvia went to her  room and occupied herself with some minor details
of clothes-packing (it is wonderful how women find relief from thoughts
in household care), while North, poor fool, seeing from his window the light
in hers, sat staring at it, alternately cursing and praying.  In the meantime,
the unconscious cause of all of this--Rufus Dawes--sat in his new cell,
wondering at the chance which had procured him comfort, and blessing
the fair hands that had brought it to him.  He doubted not but that Sylvia
had interceded with his tormentor, and by gentle pleading brought him ease.
"God bless her," he murmured.  "I have wronged her all these years.
She did not know that I suffered." He waited anxiously for North to visit him,
that he might have his belief confirmed.  "I will get him to thank her for me,"
he thought.  But North did not come for two whole days.  No one came
but his gaolers; and, gazing from his prison window upon the sea
that almost washed its walls, he saw the schooner at anchor, mocking him
with a liberty he could not achieve.  On the third day, however, North came.
His manner was constrained and abrupt.  His eyes wandered uneasily,
and he seemed burdened with thoughts which he dared not utter.

"I want you to thank her for me, Mr. North," said Dawes.

"Thank whom?"

"Mrs. Frere."

The unhappy priest shuddered at hearing the name.

"I do not think you owe any thanks to her.  Your irons were removed
by the Commandant's order."

"But by her persuasion.  I feel sure of it.  Ah, I was wrong to think
she had forgotten me.  Ask her for her forgiveness."

"Forgiveness!" said North, recalling the scene in the prison.  "What have you
done to need her forgiveness?"

"I doubted her," said Rufus Dawes.  "I thought her ungrateful and treacherous.
I thought she delivered me again into the bondage from whence I had escaped.
I thought she had betrayed me--betrayed me to the villain whose base life
I saved for her sweet sake."

"What do you mean?" asked North.  "You never spoke to me of this."

"No, I had vowed to bury the knowledge of it in my own breast--it was
too bitter to speak."

 "Saved his life!"

"Ay, and hers! I made the boat that carried her to freedom.  I held her
in my arms, and took the bread from my own lips to feed her!"

"She cannot know this," said North in an undertone.

"She has forgotten it, perhaps, for she was but a child.  But you will
remind her, will you not?  You will do me justice in her eyes before I die?
You will get her forgiveness for me?"

North could not explain why such an interview as the convict desired
was impossible, and so he promised.

"She is going away in the schooner," said he, concealing the fact
of his own departure.  "I will see her before she goes, and tell her."

"God bless you, sir," said poor Dawes.  "Now pray with me"; and the wretched
priest mechanically repeated one of the formulae his Church prescribes.

The next day he told his penitent that Mrs. Frere had forgiven him.
This was a lie.  He had not seen her; but what should a lie be to him now?
Lies were needful in the tortuous path he had undertaken to tread.
Yet the deceit he was forced to practise cost him many a pang.  He had
succumbed to his passion, and to win the love for which he yearned
had voluntarily abandoned truth and honour; but standing thus alone
with his sin, he despised and hated himself.  To deaden remorse and drown
reflection, he had recourse to brandy, and though the fierce excitement
of his hopes and fears steeled him against the stupefying action of the liquor,
he was rendered by it incapable of calm reflection.  In certain nervous
conditions our mere physical powers are proof against the action of alcohol,
and though ten times more drunk than the toper, who, incoherently stammering,
reels into the gutter, we can walk erect and talk with fluency.  Indeed,
in this artificial exaltation of the sensibilities, men often display
a brilliant wit, and an acuteness of comprehension, calculated to delight
their friends, and terrify their physicians.  North had reached this condition
of brain-drunkenness.  In plain terms, he was trembling on the verge
of madness.

The days passed swiftly, and Blunt's preparations for sea were completed.
There were two stern cabins in the schooner, one of which was appropriated
to Mrs. Frere, while the other was set apart for North.  Maurice had not
attempted to renew  his overtures of friendship, and the chaplain
had not spoken.  Mindful of Sylvia's last words, he had resolved
not to meet her until fairly embarked upon the voyage which he intended
should link their fortunes together.  On the morning of the 19th December,
Blunt declared himself ready to set sail, and in the afternoon
the two passengers came on board.

Rufus Dawes, gazing from his window upon the schooner that lay
outside the reef, thought nothing of the fact that, after the Commandant's
boat had taken away the Commandant's wife another boat should put off
with the chaplain.  It was quite natural that Mr. North should desire
to bid his friends farewell, and through the hot, still afternoon
he watched for the returning boat, hoping that the chaplain would bring
him some message from the woman whom he was never to see more on earth.
The hours wore on, however, and no breath of wind ruffled the surface
of the sea.  The day was exceedingly close and sultry, heavy dun clouds
hung on the horizon, and it seemed probable that unless a thunder-storm
should clear the air before night, the calm would continue.  Blunt, however,
with a true sailor's obstinacy in regard to weather, swore there would be
a breeze, and held to his purpose of sailing.  The hot afternoon passed away
in a sultry sunset, and it was not until the shades of evening had begun
to fall that Rufus Dawes distinguished a boat detach itself from the sides
of the schooner, and glide through the oily water to the jetty.
The chaplain was returning, and in a few hours perhaps would be with him,
to bring him the message of comfort for which his soul thirsted.
He stretched out his unshackled limbs, and throwing himself upon his stretcher,
fell to recalling the past--his boat-building, the news of his fortune,
his love, and his self-sacrifice.

North, however, was not returning to bring to the prisoner a message
of comfort, but he was returning on purpose to see him, nevertheless.
The unhappy man, torn by remorse and passion, had resolved upon a course
of action which seemed to him a penance for his crime of deceit.
He determined to confess to Dawes that the message he had brought was
wholly fictitious, that he himself loved the wife of the Commandant,
and that with her he was about to leave the island for ever.
"I am no hypocrite," he thought, in his exaltation.  "If I choose to sin,
I will sin boldly; and this poor wretch, who looks up to me as an angel,
shall know me for my true self."

The notion of thus destroying his own fame in the eyes of the man
whom he had taught to love him, was pleasant to his diseased imagination.
It was the natural outcome of the morbid condition of mind into which
he had drifted, and he provided for the complete execution of his scheme
with cunning born of the mischief working in his brain.  It was desirable
that the fatal stroke should be dealt at the last possible instant;
that he should suddenly unveil his own infamy, and then depart,
never to be seen again.  To this end he had invented an excuse for returning
to the shore at the latest possible moment.  He had purposely left
in his room a dressing-bag--the sort of article one is likely to forget
in the hurry of departure from one's house, and so certain to remember
when the time comes to finally prepare for settling in another.
He had ingeniously extracted from Blunt the fact that "he didn't expect
a wind before dark, but wanted all ship-shape and aboard", and then,
just as darkness fell, discovered that it was imperative for him to go ashore.
Blunt cursed, but, if the chaplain insisted upon going,
there was no help for it.

"There'll be a breeze in less than two hours," said he.  "You've plenty
of time, but if you're not back before the first puff, I'll sail without you,
as sure as you're born." North assured him of his punctuality.  "Don't wait
for me, Captain, if I'm not here," said he with the lightness of tone
which men use to mask anxiety.  "I'd take him at his word, Blunt,"
said the Commandant, who was affably waiting to take final farewell
of his wife.  "Give way there, men," he shouted to the crew, "and wait
at the jetty.  If Mr. North misses his ship through your laziness,
you'll pay for it."  So the boat set off, North laughing uproariously
at the thought of being late.  Frere observed with some astonishment
that the chaplain wrapped himself in a boat cloak that lay in the stern sheets.
"Does the fellow want to smother himself in a night like this!"
was his remark.  The truth was that, though his hands and head were burning,
North's teeth chattered with cold.  Perhaps this was the reason why,
when landed and out of eyeshot of the crew, he produced a pocket-flask
of rum and eagerly drank.  The spirit gave him courage for the ordeal
to which he had condemned himself; and with steadied step, he reached the door
of the old prison.  To his surprise, Gimblett refused him admission!

"But I have come direct from the Commandant," said North.

"Got any order, sir?"

"Order!  No."

"I can't let you in, your reverence," said Gimblett.

"I want to see the prisoner Dawes.  I have a special message for him.
I have come ashore on purpose."

"I am very sorry, sir--"

"The ship will sail in two hours, man, and I shall miss her," said North,
indignant at being frustrated in his design.  "Let me pass."

"Upon my honour, sir, I daren't," said Gimblett, who was not without
his good points.  "You know what authority is, sir."

North was in despair, but a bright thought struck him--a thought that,
in his soberer moments, would never have entered his head--he would
buy admission.  He produced the rum flask from beneath the sheltering cloak.
"Come, don't talk nonsense to me, Gimblett.  You don't suppose I would
come here without authority.  Here, take a pull at this, and let me through."
Gimblett's features relaxed into a smile.  "Well, sir, I suppose
it's all right, if you say so," said he.  And clutching the rum bottle
with one hand, he opened the door of Dawes's cell with the other.

North entered, and as the door closed behind him, the prisoner,
who had been lying apparently asleep upon his bed, leapt up,
and made as though to catch him by the throat.



Rufus Dawes had dreamt a dream.  Alone, amid the gathering glooms,
his fancy had recalled the past, and had peopled it with memories.
He thought that he was once more upon the barren strand where he had first met
with the sweet child he loved.  He lived again his life of usefulness
and honour.  He saw himself working at the boat, embarking,
and putting out to sea.  The fair head of the innocent girl was again pillowed
on his breast; her young lips again murmured words of affection
in his greedy ear.  Frere was beside him, watching him, as he had watched
before.  Once again the grey sea spread around him, barren of succour.
Once again, in the wild, wet morning, he beheld the American brig bearing down
upon them, and saw the bearded faces of the astonished crew.  He saw Frere
take the child in his arms and mount upon the deck; he heard the shout
of delight  that went up, and pressed again the welcoming hands which greeted
the rescued castaways.  The deck was crowded.  All the folk he had ever known
were there.  He saw the white hair and stern features of Sir Richard Devine,
and beside him stood, wringing her thin hands, his weeping mother.
Then Frere strode forward, and after him John Rex, the convict, who,
roughly elbowing through the crowd of prisoners and gaolers, would have
reached the spot where stood Sir Richard Devine, but that the corpse
of the murdered Lord Bellasis arose and thrust him back.  How the hammers
clattered in the shipbuilder's yard! Was it a coffin they were making?
Not for Sylvia--surely not for her!  The air grows heavy, lurid with flame,
and black with smoke.  The Hydaspes is on fire!  Sylvia clings to her husband.
Base wretch, would you shake her off!  Look up; the midnight heaven
is glittering with stars; above the smoke the air breathes delicately!
One step--another!  Fix your eyes on mine--so--to my heart!  Alas! she turns;
he catches at her dress.  What!  It is a priest--a priest--who,
smiling with infernal joy, would drag her to the flaming gulf
that yawns for him.  The dreamer leaps at the wretch's throat, and crying,
"Villain, was it for this fate I saved her?"--and awakes to find himself
struggling with the monster of his dream, the idol of his
waking senses--"Mr. North." 



North, paralysed no less by the suddenness of the attack than by the words
with which it was accompanied, let fall his cloak, and stood trembling
before the prophetic accusation of the man whose curses he had come to earn.

"I was dreaming," said Rufus Dawes.  "A terrible dream!  But it has passed now.
The message--you have brought me a message, have you not?  Why--what ails you?
You are pale--your knees tremble.  Did my violence----?"

North recovered himself with a great effort.  "It is nothing.  Let us talk,
for my time is short.  You have thought me a good man--one blessed of God,
one consecrated to a holy service; a man honest, pure, and truthful.
I have returned to tell you the truth.  I am none of these things."
Rufus Dawes sat staring, unable to comprehend this madness.  "I told you
that the woman you loved--for you do love her--sent you a message
of forgiveness.  I lied."

"What!"

 "I never told her of your confession.  I never mentioned your name to her."

"And she will go without knowing--Oh, Mr. North, what have you done?"

"Wrecked my own soul!" cried North, wildly, stung by the reproachful agony
of the tone.  "Do not cling to me.  My task is done.  You will hate me now.
That is my wish--I merit it.  Let me go, I say.  I shall be too late."

"Too late!  For what?" He looked at the cloak--through the open window
came the voices of the men in the boat--the memory of the rose, of the scene
in the prison, flashed across him, and he understood it all.

"Great Heaven, you go together!"

"Let me go," repeated North, in a hoarse voice.

Rufus Dawes stepped between him and the door.  "No, madman, I will not
let you go, to do this great wrong, to kill this innocent young soul,
who--God help her--loves you!"  North, confounded at this sudden reversal
of their position towards each other, crouched bewildered against the wall.
"I say you shall not go!  You shall not destroy your own soul and hers!
You love her!  So do I! and my love is mightier than yours,
for it shall save her!"

"In God's name--" cried the unhappy priest, striving to stop his ears.

"Ay, in God's name!  In the name of that God whom in my torments
I had forgotten!  In the name of that God whom you taught me to remember!
That God who sent you to save me from despair, gives me strength to save you
in my turn!  Oh, Mr. North--my teacher--my friend--my brother--by the sweet
hope of mercy which you preached to me, be merciful to this erring woman!"

North lifted agonized eyes.  "But I love her!  Love her, do you hear?
What do you know of love?"

"Love!" cried Rufus Dawes, his pale face radiant.  "Love! Oh, it is you
who do not know it.  Love is the sacrifice of self, the death of all desire
that is not for another's good.  Love is Godlike!  You love?--no, no,
your love is selfishness, and will end in shame!  Listen, I will tell you
the history of such a love as yours."

North, enthralled by the other's overmastering will, fell back trembling.

"I will tell you the secret of my life, the reason why I am here.
Come closer."


          *          *          *          *          *          *




CHAPTER XV.

THE DISCOVERY.



The house in Clarges Street was duly placed at the disposal of
Mrs. Richard Devine, who was installed in it, to the profound astonishment
and disgust of Mr. Smithers and his fellow-servants.  It now only remained
that the lady should be formally recognized by Lady Devine.  The rest
of the ingenious programme would follow as a matter of course.
John Rex was well aware of the position which, in his assumed personality,
he occupied in society.  He knew that by the world of servants, of waiters,
of those to whom servants and waiters could babble; of such turfites
and men-about-town as had reason to inquire concerning Mr. Richard's
domestic affairs--no opinion could be expressed, save that "Devine's married
somebody, I hear," with variations to the same effect.  He knew well
that the really great world, the Society, whose scandal would have been
socially injurious, had long ceased to trouble itself with
Mr. Richard Devine's doings in any particular.  If it had been reported
that the Leviathan of the Turf had married his washerwoman,
Society would only have intimated that "it was just what might have been
expected of him".  To say the truth, however, Mr. Richard had rather hoped
that--disgusted at his brutality--Lady Devine would have nothing more
to do with him, and that the ordeal of presenting his wife would not be
necessary.  Lady Devine, however, had resolved on a different line of conduct.
The intelligence concerning Mr. Richard Devine's threatened proceedings
seemed to nerve her to the confession of the dislike which had been
long growing in her mind; seemed even to aid the formation of those doubts,
the shadows of which had now and then cast themselves upon her belief
in the identity of the man who called himself her son.  "His conduct
is brutal," said she to her brother.  "I cannot understand it."

 "It is more than brutal; it is unnatural," returned Francis Wade,
 and stole a look at her.  "Moreover, he is married."

"Married!" cried Lady Devine.

"So he says," continued the other, producing the letter sent to him
by Rex at Sarah's dictation.  "He writes to me stating that his wife,
whom he married last year abroad, has come to England, and wishes us
to receive her."

"I will not receive her!" cried Lady Devine, rising and pacing down the path.

"But that would be a declaration of war," said poor Francis, twisting
an Italian onyx which adorned his irresolute hand.  "I would not advise that."

Lady Devine stopped suddenly, with the gesture of one who has finally made
a difficult and long-considered resolution.  "Richard shall not sell
this house," she said.

"But, my dear Ellinor," cried her brother, in some alarm at this
unwonted decision, "I am afraid that you can't prevent him."

"If he is the man he says he is, I can," returned she, with effort.

Francis Wade gasped.  "If he is the man! It is true--I have sometimes
thought--Oh, Ellinor, can it be that we have been deceived?"

She came to him and leant upon him for support, as she had leant upon her son
in the garden where they now stood, nineteen years ago.  "I do not know,
I am afraid to think.  But between Richard and myself is a secret--a shameful
secret, Frank, known to no other living person.  If the man who threatens me
does not know that secret, he is not my son.  If he does know it----"

"Well, in Heaven's name, what then?"

"He knows that he has neither part nor lot in the fortune
of the man who was my husband."

"Ellinor, you terrify me.  What does this mean?"

"I will tell you if there be need to do so," said the unhappy lady.
"But I cannot now.  I never meant to speak of it again, even to him.
Consider that it is hard to break a silence of nearly twenty years.
Write to this man, and tell him that before I receive his wife,
I wish to see him alone.  No--do not let him come here until the truth
be known.  I will go to him."

It was with some trepidation that Mr. Richard, sitting with his wife
on the afternoon of the 3rd May, 1846, awaited the arrival of his mother.
He had been very nervous and unstrung for some days past, and the prospect
of the coming interview was, for some reason he could not explain to himself,
weighty with fears.  "What does she want to come alone for?  And what
can she have to say?" he asked himself.  "She cannot suspect anything
after all these years, surely?"  He endeavoured to reason with himself,
but in vain; the knock at the door which announced the arrival
of his pretended mother made his heart jump.

"I feel deuced shaky, Sarah," he said.  "Let's have a nip of something."

"You've been nipping too much for the last five years, Dick." (She had quite
schooled her tongue to the new name.) "Your 'shakiness' is the result
of 'nipping', I'm afraid."

"Oh, don't preach; I am not in the humour for it."

"Help yourself, then.  You are quite sure that you are ready with your story?"

The brandy revived him, and he rose with affected heartiness.  "My dear mother,
allow me to present to you--" He paused, for there was that in Lady Devine's
face which confirmed his worst fears.

"I wish to speak to you alone," she said, ignoring with steady eyes
the woman whom she had ostensibly come to see.

John Rex hesitated, but Sarah saw the danger, and hastened to confront it.
"A wife should be a husband's best friend, madam.  Your son married me
of his own free will, and even his mother can have nothing to say to him
which it is not my duty and privilege to hear.  I am not a girl as you can see,
and I can bear whatever news you bring."

Lady Devine bit her pale lips.  She saw at once that the woman before her
was not gently-born, but she felt also that she was a woman of higher mental
calibre than herself.  Prepared as she was for the worst, this sudden
and open declaration of hostilities frightened her, as Sarah had calculated.
She began to realize that if she was to prove equal to the task she
had set herself, she must not waste her strength in skirmishing.
Steadily refusing to look at Richard's wife, she addressed herself to Richard.
"My brother will be here in half an hour," she said, as though the mention
of his name would better her  position in some way.  "But I begged him
to allow me to come first in order that I might speak to you privately."

"Well," said John Rex, "we are in private.  What have you to say?"

"I want to tell you that I forbid you to carry out the plan you have
for breaking up Sir Richard's property."

"Forbid me!" cried Rex, much relieved.  "Why, I only want to do
what my father's will enables me to do."

"Your father's will enables you to do nothing of the sort, and you know it."
She spoke as though rehearsing a series of set-speeches, and Sarah watched her
with growing alarm.

"Oh, nonsense!" cries John Rex, in sheer amazement.  "I have
a lawyer's opinion on it."

"Do you remember what took place at Hampstead this day nineteen years ago?"

"At Hampstead!" said Rex, grown suddenly pale.  "This day nineteen years ago.
No!  What do you mean?"

"Do you not remember?" she continued, leaning forward eagerly,
and speaking almost fiercely.  "Do you not remember the reason why you left
the house where you were born, and which you now wish to sell to strangers?"

John Rex stood dumbfounded, the blood suffusing his temples.  He knew
that among the secrets of the man whose inheritance he had stolen
was one which he had never gained--the secret of that sacrifice
to which Lady Devine had once referred--and he felt that this secret
was to be revealed to crush him now.

Sarah, trembling also, but more with rage than terror, swept towards
Lady Devine.  "Speak out!" she said, "if you have anything to say!
Of what do you accuse my husband?"

"Of imposture!" cried Lady Devine, all her outraged maternity nerving her
to abash her enemy.  "This man may be your husband, but he is not my son!"

Now that the worst was out, John Rex, choking with passion, felt all the devil
within him rebelling against defeat.  "You are mad," he said.  "You have
recognized me for three years, and now, because I want to claim
that which is my own, you invent this lie.  Take care how you provoke me.
If I am not your son--you have recognized me as such.  I stand upon the law
and upon my rights."

Lady Devine turned swiftly, and with both hands to her bosom, confronted him.

"You shall have your rights!  You shall have what the law allows you!
Oh, how blind I have been all these years.  Persist in your infamous
imposture.  Call yourself Richard Devine still, and I will tell the world
the shameful secret which my son died to hide.  Be Richard Devine!
Richard Devine was a bastard, and the law allows him--nothing!"

There was no doubting the truth of her words.  It was impossible that even
a woman whose home had been desecrated, as hers had been, would invent a lie
so self-condemning.  Yet John Rex forced himself to appear to doubt,
and his dry lips asked, "If then your husband was not the father
of your son, who was?"

"My cousin, Armigell Esme Wade, Lord Bellasis," answered Lady Devine.

John Rex gasped for breath.  His hand, tugging at his neck-cloth,
rent away the linen that covered his choking throat.  The whole horizon
of his past was lit up by a lightning flash which stunned him.  His brain,
already enfeebled by excess, was unable to withstand this last shock.
He staggered, and but for the cabinet against which he leant,
would have fallen.  The secret thoughts of his heart rose to his lips,
and were uttered unconsciously.  "Lord Bellasis!  He was my father also,
and--I killed him!"

A dreadful silence fell, and then Lady Devine, stretching out her hands
towards the self-confessed murderer, with a sort of frightful respect,
said in a whisper, in which horror and supplication were strangely mingled,
"What did you do with my son?  Did you kill him also?"

But John Rex, wagging his head from side to side, like a beast in the shambles
that has received a mortal stroke, made no reply.  Sarah Purfoy,
awed as she was by the dramatic force of the situation, nevertheless
remembered that Francis Wade might arrive at any moment, and saw her last
opportunity for safety.  She advanced and touched the mother on the shoulder.

"Your son is alive!"

"Where?"

"Will you promise not to hinder us leaving this house if I tell you?"

"Yes, yes."

"Will you promise to keep the confession which you have heard secret,
until we have left England?"

"I promise anything.  In God's name, woman, if you have a woman's heart,
speak!  Where is my son?"

Sarah Purfoy rose over the enemy who had defeated her, and said in level,
deliberate accents, "They call him Rufus Dawes.  He is a convict
at Norfolk Island, transported for life for the murder which you have heard
my husband confess to having committed--Ah!----"

Lady Devine had fainted.




CHAPTER XVI.

FIFTEEN HOURS.



Sarah flew to Rex.  "Rouse yourself, John, for Heaven's sake.
We have not a moment." John Rex passed his hand over his forehead wearily.

"I cannot think.  I am broken down.  I am ill.  My brain seems dead."

Nervously watching the prostrate figure on the floor, she hurried on bonnet,
cloak, and veil, and in a twinkling had him outside the house and into a cab.

"Thirty-nine, Lombard Street.  Quick!"

"You won't give me up?" said Rex, turning dull eyes upon her.

"Give you up?  No.  But the police will be after us as soon as that woman
can speak, and her brother summon his lawyer.  I know what her promise
is worth.  We have only got about fifteen hours start."

"I can't go far, Sarah," said he; "I am sleepy and stupid."

She repressed the terrible fear that tugged at her heart,
and strove to rally him.

"You've been drinking too much, John.  Now sit still and be good,
while I go and get some money for you."

She hurried into the bank, and her name secured her an interview
with the manager at once.

"That's a rich woman," said one of the clerks to his friend.
"A widow, too!  Chance for you, Tom," returned the other; and, presently,
from out the sacred presence came another clerk with a request for
"a draft on Sydney for three thousand, less premium", and bearing a cheque
signed "Sarah Carr" for 200 pounds, which he "took" in notes, and so returned again.

From the bank she was taken to Green's Shipping Office.  "I want a cabin
in the first ship for Sydney, please."

The shipping-clerk looked at a board.  "The Highflyer goes in twelve days,
madam, and there is one cabin vacant."

"I want to go at once--to-morrow or next day."

He smiled.  "I am afraid that is impossible," said he.  Just then
one of the partners came out of his private room with a telegram in his hand,
and beckoned the shipping-clerk.  Sarah was about to depart for another office,
when the clerk came hastily back.

"Just the thing for you, ma'am," said he.  "We have got a telegram
from a gentleman who has a first cabin in the Dido, to say that his wife
has been taken ill, and he must give up his berth."

"When does the Dido sail?"

"To-morrow morning.  She is at Plymouth, waiting for the mails.  If you go
down to-night by the mail-train which leaves at 9.30, you will be
in plenty of time, and we will telegraph."

"I will take the cabin.  How much?"

"One hundred and thirty pounds, madam," said he.

She produced her notes.  "Pray count it yourself.  We have been delayed
in the same manner ourselves.  My husband is a great invalid, but I was not
so fortunate as to get someone to refund us our passage-money."

"What name did you say?" asked the clerk, counting.  "Mr. and Mrs. Carr.
Thank you," and he handed her the slip of paper.

"Thank you," said Sarah, with a bewitching smile, and swept down
to her cab again.  John Rex was gnawing his nails in sullen apathy.
She displayed the passage-ticket.  "You are saved.  By the time
Mr. Francis Wade gets his wits together, and his sister recovers her speech,
we shall be past pursuit."

"To Sydney!" cries Rex angrily, looking at the warrant.  "Why there
of all places in God's earth?"

Sarah surveyed him with an expression of contempt.  "Because your scheme
has failed.  Now this is mine.  You have deserted me once; you will do so
again in any other country.  You are a murderer, a villain, and a coward,
but you suit me.  I save you, but I mean to keep you.  I will bring you
to Australia, where the first trooper will arrest you at my bidding
as an escaped convict.  If you don't like to come, stay behind.  I don't care.
I am rich.  I have done no wrong.  The law cannot touch me--Do you agree?
Then tell the man to drive to Silver's in Cornhill for your outfit."

Having housed him at last--all gloomy and despondent--in a quiet tavern
near the railway station, she tried to get some information
as to this last revealed crime.

"How came you to kill Lord Bellasis?" she asked him quietly.

"I had found out from my mother that I was his natural son,
and one day riding home from a pigeon match I told him so.  He taunted me--
and I struck him.  I did not mean to kill him, but he was an old man,
and in my passion I struck hard.  As he fell, I thought I saw a horseman
among the trees, and I galloped off.  My ill-luck began then,
for the same night I was arrested at the coiner's."

"But I thought there was robbery," said she.

"Not by me.  But, for God's sake, talk no more about it.  I am sick--my brain
is going round.  I want to sleep."

"Be careful, please!  Lift him gently!" said Mrs. Carr, as the boat ranged
alongside the Dido, gaunt and grim, in the early dawn of a bleak May morning.

"What's the matter?" asked the officer of the watch, perceiving the bustle
in the boat.

"Gentleman seems to have had a stroke," said a boatman.

It was so.  There was no fear that John Rex would escape again from the woman
he had deceived.  The infernal genius of Sarah Purfoy had saved her lover
at last--but saved him only that she might nurse him till he died--
died ignorant even of her tenderness, a mere animal, lacking the intellect
he had in his selfish wickedness abused.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE REDEMPTION.



          *          *          *          *          *          *


----"That is my story.  Let it plead with you to turn you from your purpose,
and to save her.  The punishment of sin falls not upon the sinner only.
A deed once done lives in its consequence for ever, and this tragedy
of shame and crime to which my felon's death is a fitting end,
is but the outcome of a selfish sin like yours!"

It had grown dark in the prison, and as he ceased speaking, Rufus Dawes felt
a trembling hand seize his own.  It was that of the chaplain.

"Let me hold your hand!--Sir Richard Devine did not murder your father.
He was murdered by a horseman who, riding with him, struck him and fled."

"Merciful God!  How do you know this?"

"Because I saw the murder committed, because--don't let go my hand--
I robbed the body."

" You!--"

"In my youth I was a gambler.  Lord Bellasis won money from me, and to pay him
I forged two bills of exchange.  Unscrupulous and cruel, he threatened
to expose me if I did not give him double the sum.  Forgery was death
in those days, and I strained every nerve to buy back the proofs of my folly.
I succeeded.  I was to meet Lord Bellasis near his own house at Hampstead
on the night of which you speak, to pay the money and receive the bills.
When I saw him fall I galloped up, but instead of pursuing his murderer
I rifled his pocket-book of my forgeries.  I was afraid to give evidence
at the trial, or I might have saved you.--Ah! you have let go my hand!"

"God forgive you!" said Rufus Dawes, and then was silent.

"Speak!" cried North.  "Speak, or you will make me mad.  Reproach me!
Spurn me!  Spit upon me!  You cannot think worse of me than I do myself."
But the other, his head buried in his hands, did not answer,
and with a wild gesture North staggered out of the cell.

Nearly an hour had passed since the chaplain had placed the rum flask
in his hand, and Gimblett observed, with semi-drunken astonishment,
that it was not yet empty.  He had intended, in the first instance,
to have taken but one sup in payment of his courtesy--for Gimblett
was conscious of his own weakness in the matter of strong waters--
but as he waited and waited, the one sup became two, and two three,
and at length more than half the contents of the bottle had moistened
his gullet, and maddened him for more.  Gimblett was in a quandary.
If he didn't finish the flask, he would be oppressed with an everlasting
regret.  If he did finish it he would be drunk; and to be drunk on duty
was the one unpardonable sin.  He looked across the darkness of the sea,
to where the rising and falling light marked the schooner.  The Commandant
was a long way off!  A faint breeze, which had--according to
Blunt's prophecy--arisen with the night, brought up to him the voices
of the boat's crew from the jetty below him.  His friend Jack Mannix
was coxswain of her.  He would give Jack a drink.  Leaving the gate,
he advanced unsteadily to the edge of the embankment, and,
putting his head over, called out to his friend.  The breeze, however,
which was momentarily freshening, carried his voice away; and Jack Mannix,
hearing nothing, continued his conversation.  Gimblett was just drunk enough
to be virtuously indignant at this incivility, and seating himself
on the edge of the bank, swallowed the remainder of the rum at a draught.
The effect upon his enforcedly temperate stomach was very touching.
He made one feeble attempt to get upon his legs, cast a reproachful glance
at the rum bottle, essayed to drink out of its spirituous emptiness,
and then, with a smile of reckless contentment, cursed the island
and all its contents, and fell asleep.



North, coming out of the prison, did not notice the absence of the gaoler;
indeed, he was not in a condition to notice anything.  Bare-headed,
without his cloak, with staring eyes and clenched hands, he rushed through
the gates into the night as one who flies headlong from some fearful vision.
It seemed that, absorbed in his own thoughts, he took no heed of his steps,
for instead of taking the path which led to the sea, he kept along
the more familiar one that led to his own cottage on the hill.
"This man a convict!" he cried.  "He is a hero--a  martyr!  What a life!
Love!  Yes, that is love indeed!  Oh, James North, how base art thou
in the eyes of God beside this despised outcast!" And so muttering,
tearing his grey hair, and beating his throbbing temples with clenched hands,
he reached his own room, and saw, by the light of the new-born moon,
the dressing-bag and candle standing on the table as he had left them.
They brought again to his mind the recollection of the task that was
before him.  He lighted the candle, and, taking the bag in his hand,
cast one last look round the chamber which had witnessed his futile struggles
against that baser part of himself which had at last triumphed.  It was so.
Fate had condemned him to sin, and he must now fulfil the doom he might
once have averted.  Already he fancied he could see the dim speck
that was the schooner move slowly away from the prison shore.
He must not linger; they would be waiting for him at the jetty.  As he turned,
the moonbeams--as yet unobscured by the rapidly gathering clouds--flung
a silver streak across the sea, and across that streak North saw a boat pass.
Was his distracted brain playing him false?--in the stern sat,
wrapped in a cloak, the figure of a man!  A fierce gust of wind drove
the sea-rack over the moon, and the boat disappeared, as though swallowed up
by the gathering storm.  North staggered back as the truth struck him.

He remembered how he had said, "I will redeem him with my own blood!"
Was it possible that a just Heaven had thus decided to allow the man
whom a coward had condemned, to escape, and to punish the coward
who remained?  Oh, this man deserved freedom; he was honest, noble, truthful!
How different from himself--a hateful self-lover, an unchaste priest,
a drunkard.  The looking-glass, in which the saintly face of Meekin
was soon to be reflected, stood upon the table, and North, peering into it,
with one hand mechanically thrust into the bag, started in insane rage
at the pale face and bloodshot eyes he saw there.  What a hateful wretch
he had become!  The last fatal impulse of insanity which seeks relief
from its own hideous self came upon him, and his fingers closed convulsively
upon the object they had been seeking.

"It is better so," he muttered, addressing, with fixed eyes, his own
detested image.  "I have examined you long enough.  I have read your heart,
and written out your secrets! You are  but a shell--the shell that holds
a corrupted and sinful heart.  He shall live; you shall die!"  The rapid motion
of his arm overturned the candle, and all was dark.



Rufus Dawes, overpowered by the revelation so suddenly made to him,
had remained for a few moments motionless in his cell, expecting to hear
the heavy clang of the outer door, which should announce to him the departure
of the chaplain.  But he did not hear it, and it seemed to him that the air
in the cell had grown suddenly cooler.  He went to the door, and looked
into the narrow corridor, expecting to see the scowling countenance
of Gimblett.  To his astonishment the door of the prison was wide open,
and not a soul in sight.  His first thought was of North.  Had the story
he had told, coupled with the entreaties he had lavished, sufficed
to turn him from his purpose?

He looked around.  The night was falling suddenly; the wind was mounting;
from beyond the bar came the hoarse murmur of an angry sea.  If the schooner
was to sail that night, she had best get out into deep waters.  Where was
the chaplain?  Pray Heaven the delay had been sufficient, and they had sailed
without him.  Yet they would be sure to meet.  He advanced a few steps nearer,
and looked about him.  Was it possible that, in his madness,
the chaplain had been about to commit some violence which had drawn
the trusty Gimblett from his post? "Gr-r-r-r!  Ouph!"  The trusty Gimblett
was lying at his feet--dead drunk!

"Hi! Hiho! Hillo there!" roared somebody from the jetty below.
"Be that you, Muster Noarth?  We ain't too much tiam, sur!"

From the uncurtained windows of the chaplain's house on the hill
beamed the newly-lighted candle.  They in the boat did not see it, but it
brought to the prisoner a wild hope that made his heart bound.  He ran back
to the cell, clapped on North's wide-awake, and flinging the cloak hastily
about him, came quickly down the steps.  If the moon should shine out now!

"Jump in, sir," said unsuspecting Mannix, thinking only of the flogging
he had been threatened with.  "It'll be a dirty night, this night!
Put this over your knees, sir.  Shove her off!  Give way!"  And they
were afloat.  But one glimpse of  moonlight fell upon the slouched hat
and cloaked figure, and the boat's crew, engaged in the dangerous task
of navigating the reef in the teeth of the rising gale, paid no attention
to the chaplain.

"By George, lads, we're but just in time!" cried Mannix; and they laid
alongside the schooner, black in blackness.  "Up ye go, yer honour,
quick!" The wind had shifted, and was now off the shore.  Blunt,
who had begun to repent of his obstinacy, but would not confess it,
thought the next best thing to riding out the gale was to get out to open sea.
"Damn the parson," he had said, in all heartiness; "we can't wait all night
for him.  Heave ahead, Mr. Johnson!" And so the anchor was atrip
as Rufus Dawes ran up the side.

The Commandant, already pulling off in his own boat, roared a coarse farewell.
"Good-bye, North! It was touch and go with ye!" adding, "Curse the fellow,
he's too proud to answer!"

The chaplain indeed spoke to no one, and plunging down the hatchway,
made for the stern cabins.  "Close shave, your reverence!" said a respectful
somebody, opening a door.  It was; but the clergyman did not say so.
He double-locked the door, and hardly realizing the danger he had escaped,
flung himself on the bunk, panting.  Over his head he heard the rapid tramp
of feet and the cheery

Yo hi-oh! and a rumbelow! 

of the men at the capstan.  He could smell the sea, and through the open
window of the cabin could distinguish the light in the chaplain's house
on the hill.  The trampling ceased, the vessel began to move slowly--
the Commandant's boat appeared below him for an instant, making her way back--
the Lady Franklin had set sail.  With his eyes fixed on the tiny light,
he strove to think what was best to be done.  It was hopeless to think
that he could maintain the imposture which, favoured by the darkness
and confusion, he had hitherto successfully attempted.  He was certain
to be detected at Hobart Town, even if he could lie concealed during his long
and tedious voyage.  That mattered little, however.  He had saved Sylvia,
for North had been left behind.  Poor North!  As the thought of pity
came to him, the light he looked at was suddenly extinguished, and Rufus Dawes,
compelled thereto as by an irresistible power, fell  upon his knees
and prayed for the pardon and happiness of the man who had redeemed him.  


          *          *          *          *          *          *


"That's a gun from the shore," said Partridge the mate, "and they're burning
a red light.  There's a prisoner escaped.  Shall we lie-to?"

"Lie-to!" cried old Blunt, with a tremendous oath.  "We'll have suthin'
else to do.  Look there!"

The sky to the northward was streaked with a belt of livid green colour,
above which rose a mighty black cloud, whose shape was ever changing.




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE CYCLONE.



Bunt, recognising the meteoric heralds of danger, had begun to regret
his obstinacy.  He saw that a hurricane was approaching.



Along the south coast of the Australian continent, though the usual
westerly winds and gales of the highest latitudes prevail during
the greater portion of the year, hurricanes are not infrequent.
Gales commence at NW with a low barometer, increasing at W and SW,
and gradually veering to the south.  True cyclones occur at New Zealand.
The log of the Adelaide for 29th February, 1870, describes one which travelled
at the rate of ten miles an hour, and had all the veerings, calm centre,
etc., of a true tropical hurricane.  Now a cyclone occurring off the west coast
of New Zealand would travel from the New Hebrides, where such storms
are hideously frequent, and envelop Norfolk Island, passing directly across
the track of vessels coming from South America to Sydney.  It was one of these
rotatory storms, an escaped tempest of the tropics, which threatened
the Lady Franklin.



The ominous calm which had brooded over the island during the day
had given place to a smart breeze from the north-east,  and though the schooner
had been sheltered at her anchorage under the lee of the island
(the "harbour" looked nearly due south), when once fairly out to sea,
Blunt saw it would be impossible to put back in the teeth of the gale.
Haply, however, the full fury of the storm would not overtake them
till they had gained sea-room.

Rufus Dawes, exhausted with the excitement through which he had passed,
had slept for two or three hours, when he was awakened by the motion
of the vessel going on the other tack.  He rose to his feet, and found himself
in complete darkness.  Overhead was the noise of trampling feet,
and he could distinguish the hoarse tones of Blunt bellowing orders.
Astonished at the absence of the moonlight which had so lately silvered
the sea, he flung open the cabin window and looked out.  As we have said,
the cabin allotted to North was one of the two stern cabins, and from it
the convict had a full view of the approaching storm.

The sight was one of wild grandeur.  The huge, black cloud which hung
in the horizon had changed its shape.  Instead of a curtain it was an arch.
Beneath this vast and magnificent portal shone a dull phosphoric light.
Across this livid space pale flashes of sheet-lightning passed noiselessly.
Behind it was a dull and threatening murmur, made up of the grumbling
of thunder, the falling of rain, and the roar of contending wind and water.
The lights of the prison-island had disappeared, so rapid had been
the progress of the schooner under the steady breeze, and the ocean
stretched around, black and desolate.  Gazing upon this gloomy expanse,
Rufus Dawes observed a strange phenomenon--lightning appeared to burst
upwards from the sullen bosom of the sea.  At intervals, the darkly-rolling
waves flashed fire, and streaks of flame shot upwards.  The wind increased
in violence, and the arch of light was fringed with rain.  A dull,
red glow hung around, like the reflection of a conflagration.  Suddenly,
a tremendous peal of thunder, accompanied by a terrific downfall of rain,
rattled along the sky.  The arch of light disappeared, as though
some invisible hand had shut the slide of a giant lantern.  A great wall
of water rushed roaring over the level plain of the sea, and with
an indescribable medley of sounds, in which tones of horror, triumph,
and torture were blended, the cyclone swooped upon them.

Rufus Dawes comprehended that the elements had come to  save or destroy him.
In that awful instant the natural powers of the man rose equal to the occasion.
In a few hours his fate would be decided, and it was necessary that he should
take all precaution.  One of two events seemed inevitable; he would either be
drowned where he lay, or, should the vessel weather the storm,
he would be forced upon the deck, and the desperate imposture
he had attempted be discovered.  For the moment despair overwhelmed him,
and he contemplated the raging sea as though he would cast himself into it,
and thus end his troubles.  The tones of a woman's voice recalled him
to himself.  Cautiously unlocking the cabin door, he peered out.
The cuddy was lighted by a swinging lamp which revealed Sylvia questioning
one of the women concerning the storm.  As Rufus Dawes looked,
he saw her glance, with an air half of hope, half of fear, towards the door
behind which he lurked, and he understood that she expected to see
the chaplain.  Locking the door, he proceeded hastily to dress himself
in North's clothes.  He would wait until his aid was absolutely required,
and then rush out.  In the darkness, Sylvia would mistake him for the priest.
He could convey her to the boat--if recourse to the boats should be
rendered necessary--and then take the hazard of his fortune.
While she was in danger, his place was near by.



From the deck of the vessel the scene was appalling.  The clouds had closed in.
The arch of light had disappeared, and all was a dull, windy blackness.
Gigantic seas seemed to mount in the horizon and sweep towards and upon them.
It was as though the ship lay in the vortex of a whirlpool, so high
on either side of her were piled the rough pyramidical masses of sea.
Mighty gusts arose--claps of wind which seemed like strokes of thunder.
A sail loosened from its tackling was torn away and blown out to sea,
disappearing like a shred of white paper to leeward.  The mercury
in the barometer marked 29:50.  Blunt, who had been at the rum bottle,
swore great oaths that no soul on board would see another sun;
and when Partridge rebuked him for blasphemy at such a moment,
wept spirituous tears.

The howling of the wind was benumbing; the very fury of sound enfeebled
while it terrified.  The sailors, horror-stricken, crawled about the deck,
clinging to anything they thought most secure.  It was impossible to raise
the head to look to windward.   The eyelids were driven together,
and the face stung by the swift and biting spray.  Men breathed this atmosphere
of salt and wind, and became sickened.  Partridge felt that orders
were useless--the man at his elbow could not have heard them.
The vessel lay almost on her beam ends, with her helm up, stripped even
of the sails which had been furled upon the yards.  Mortal hands
could do nothing for her.

By five o'clock in the morning the gale had reached its height.
The heavens showered out rain and lightnings--rain which the wind blew away
before it reached the ocean, lightnings which the ravenous and mountainous
waves swallowed before they could pierce the gloom.  The ship lay over
on her side, held there by the madly rushing wind, which seemed to
flatten down the sea, cutting off the top of the waves, and breaking them
into fine white spray which covered the ocean like a thick cloud,
as high as the topmast heads.  Each gust seemed unsurpassable in intensity,
but was succeeded, after a pause, that was not a lull but a gasp,
by one of more frantic violence.  The barometer stood at 27:82.
The ship was a mere labouring, crazy wreck, that might sink at any moment.
At half-past three o'clock the barometer had fallen to 27:62.
Save when lighted by occasional flashes of sheet-lightning, which showed
to the cowed wretches their awe-stricken faces, this tragedy of the elements
was performed in a darkness which was almost palpable.

Suddenly the mercury rose to 29:90, and, with one awful shriek,
the wind dropped to a calm.  The Lady Franklin had reached the centre
of the cyclone.  Partridge, glancing to where the great body of drunken Blunt
rolled helplessly lashed to the wheel, felt a strange selfish joy thrill him.
If the ship survived the drunken captain would be dismissed, and he, Partridge,
the gallant, would reign in his stead.  The schooner, no longer steadied
by the wind, was at the mercy of every sea.  Volumes of water poured over her.
Presently she heeled over, for, with a triumphant scream, the wind leapt
on to her from a fresh quarter.  Following its usual course,
the storm returned upon its track.  The hurricane was about to repeat itself
from the north-west.

The sea, pouring down through the burst hatchway, tore the door of the cuddy
from its hinges.  Sylvia found herself surrounded by a wildly-surging torrent
which threatened to overwhelm  her.  She shrieked aloud for aid, but her voice
was inaudible even to herself.  Clinging to the mast which penetrated
the little cuddy, she fixed her eyes upon the door behind which she imagined
North was, and whispered a last prayer for succour.  The door opened,
and from out the cabin came a figure clad in black.  She looked up,
and the light of the expiring lamp showed her a face that was not that
of the man she hoped to see.  Then a pair of dark eyes beaming ineffable love
and pity were bent upon her, and a pair of dripping arms held her above the
brine as she had once been held in the misty mysterious days that were gone.

In the terror of that moment the cloud which had so long oppressed her brain
passed from it.  The action of the strange man before her completed
and explained the action of the convict chained to the Port Arthur coal-wagons,
of the convict kneeling in the Norfolk Island torture-chamber.  She remembered
the terrible experience of Macquarie Harbour.  She recalled the evening
of the boat-building, when, swung into the air by stalwart arms,
she had promised the rescuing prisoner to plead for him with her kindred.
Regaining her memory thus, all the agony and shame of the man's long life
of misery became at once apparent to her.  She understood how her husband
had deceived her, and with what base injustice and falsehood he had bought
her young love.  No question as to how this doubly-condemned prisoner
had escaped from the hideous isle of punishment she had quitted occurred
to her.  She asked not--even in her thoughts--how it had been given to him
to supplant the chaplain in his place on board the vessel.
She only considered, in her sudden awakening, the story of his wrongs,
remembered only his marvellous fortitude and love, knew only,
in this last instant of her pure, ill-fated life, that as he had saved her
once from starvation and death, so had he come again to save her
from sin and from despair.  Whoever has known a deadly peril will remember
how swiftly thought then travelled back through scenes clean forgotten,
and will understand how Sylvia's retrospective vision merged the past
into the actual before her, how the shock of recovered memory subsided
in the grateful utterance of other days--"Good Mr. Dawes!"

The eyes of the man and woman met in one long, wild gaze.  Sylvia
stretched out her white hands and smiled, and Richard  Devine understood
in his turn the story of the young girl's joyless life, and knew how
she had been sacrificed.

In the great crisis of our life, when, brought face to face with annihilation,
we are suspended gasping over the great emptiness of death,
we become conscious that the Self which we think we knew so well
has strange and unthought-of capacities.  To describe a tempest
of the elements is not easy, but to describe a tempest of the soul
is impossible.  Amid the fury of such a tempest, a thousand memories,
each bearing in its breast the corpse of some dead deed whose influence
haunts us yet, are driven like feathers before the blast, as unsubstantial
and as unregarded.  The mists which shroud our self--knowledge become
transparent, and we are smitten with sudden lightning-like comprehension
of our own misused power over our fate.

This much we feel and know, but who can coldly describe the hurricane
which thus o'erwhelms him?  As well ask the drowned mariner to tell
of the marvels of mid-sea when the great deeps swallowed him and the darkness
of death encompassed him round about.  These two human beings felt
that they had done with life.  Together thus, alone in the very midst
and presence of death, the distinctions of the world they were about to leave
disappeared.  Then vision grew clear.  They felt as beings whose bodies
had already perished, and as they clasped hands their freed souls,
recognizing each the loveliness of the other, rushed tremblingly together.

Borne before the returning whirlwind, an immense wave, which glimmered
in the darkness, spouted up and towered above the wreck.  The wretches
who yet clung to the deck looked shuddering up into the bellying greenness,
and knew that the end was come.



END OF BOOK THE FOURTH






EPILOGUE.



At day-dawn the morning after the storm,
the rays of the rising sun fell upon an
object which floated on the surface of
the water not far from where the schooner
had foundered.

This object was a portion of the mainmast
head of the Lady Franklin, and entangled
in the rigging were two corpses--a man
and a woman.  The arms of the man were
clasped round the body of the woman,
and her head lay on his breast.
The Prison Island appeared but as a long
low line on the distant horizon.
The tempest was over.  As the sun rose
higher the air grew balmy, the ocean placid;
and, golden in the rays of the new risen
morning, the wreck and its burden drifted
out to sea.






