BOOK II.--MACQUARIE HARBOUR.  1833.






CHAPTER I.

THE TOPOGRAPHY OF VAN DIEMEN'S LAND.



The south-east coast of Van Diemen's Land, from the solitary Mewstone
to the basaltic cliffs of Tasman's Head, from Tasman's Head to Cape Pillar,
and from Cape Pillar to the rugged grandeur of Pirates' Bay, resembles
a biscuit at which rats have been nibbling.  Eaten away by the continual action
of the ocean which, pouring round by east and west, has divided the peninsula
from the mainland of the Australasian continent--and done for Van Diemen's Land
what it has done for the Isle of Wight--the shore line is broken and ragged.
Viewed upon the map, the fantastic fragments of island and promontory
which lie scattered between the South-West Cape and the greater Swan Port,
are like the curious forms assumed by melted lead spilt into water.
If the supposition were not too extravagant, one might imagine that
when the Australian continent was fused, a careless giant upset the crucible,
and spilt Van Diemen's land in the ocean.  The coast navigation is as dangerous
as that of the Mediterranean.  Passing from Cape Bougainville to the east
of Maria Island, and between the numerous rocks and shoals which lie beneath
the triple height of the Three Thumbs, the mariner is suddenly checked
by Tasman's Peninsula, hanging, like a huge double-dropped ear-ring,
from the mainland.  Getting round under the Pillar rock through Storm Bay
to Storing Island, we sight the Italy of this miniature Adriatic.
Between Hobart Town and Sorrell, Pittwater and the Derwent, a strangely-shaped
point of land--the Italian boot with its toe bent upwards--projects
into the bay, and, separated from this projection by a narrow channel,
dotted with rocks, the long length of Bruny Island makes, between
its western side and the cliffs of Mount Royal, the dangerous passage
known as D'Entrecasteaux Channel.  At the southern entrance
of D'Entrecasteaux Channel, a line of sunken rocks, known by the generic name
of the Actaeon reef, attests that Bruny Head was once joined with the shores
of Recherche Bay; while, from the South Cape to the jaws of Macquarie Harbour,
the white water caused by sunken reefs, or the jagged peaks of single rocks
abruptly rising in mid sea, warn the mariner off shore.

It would seem as though nature, jealous of the beauties of her silver Derwent,
had made the approach to it as dangerous as possible; but once through
the archipelago of D'Entrecasteaux Channel, or the less dangerous
eastern passage of Storm Bay, the voyage up the river is delightful.
From the sentinel solitude of the Iron Pot to the smiling banks of New Norfolk,
the river winds in a succession of reaches, narrowing to a deep channel
cleft between rugged and towering cliffs.  A line drawn due north
from the source of the Derwent would strike another river winding out
from the northern part of the island, as the Derwent winds out from the south.
The force of the waves, expended, perhaps, in destroying the isthmus which,
two thousand years ago, probably connected Van Diemen's Land with the continent
has been here less violent.  The rounding currents of the Southern Ocean,
meeting at the mouth of the Tamar, have rushed upwards over the isthmus
they have devoured, and pouring against the south coast of Victoria,
have excavated there that inland sea called Port Philip Bay.  If the waves
have gnawed the south coast of Van Diemen's Land, they have bitten
a mouthful out of the south coast of Victoria.  The Bay is a millpool,
having an area of nine hundred square miles, with a race between the heads
two miles across.

About a hundred and seventy miles to the south of this mill-race
lies Van Diemen's Land, fertile, fair, and rich, rained upon by
the genial showers from the clouds which, attracted by the Frenchman's Cap,
Wyld's Crag, or the lofty peaks of the Wellington and Dromedary range,
pour down upon the sheltered valleys their fertilizing streams.
No parching hot wind--the scavenger, if the torment, of the continent--blows
upon her crops and corn.  The cool south breeze ripples gently the blue waters
of the Derwent, and fans the curtains of the open windows of the city
which nestles in the broad shadow of Mount Wellington.  The hot wind,
born amid the burning sand of the interior of the vast Australian continent,
sweeps over the scorched and cracking plains, to lick up their streams
and wither the herbage in its path, until it meets the waters of
the great south bay; but in its passage across the straits it is reft
of its fire, and sinks, exhausted with its journey, at the feet of
the terraced slopes of Launceston.

The climate of Van Diemen's Land is one of the loveliest in the world.
Launceston is warm, sheltered, and moist; and Hobart Town,
protected by Bruny Island and its archipelago of D'Entrecasteaux Channel
and Storm Bay from the violence of the southern breakers, preserves
the mean temperature of Smyrna; whilst the district between these two towns
spreads in a succession of beautiful valleys, through which glide
clear and sparkling streams.  But on the western coast, from the steeple-rocks
of Cape Grim to the scrub-encircled barrenness of Sandy Cape,
and the frowning entrance to Macquarie Harbour, the nature of the country
entirely changes.  Along that iron-bound shore, from Pyramid Island
and the forest-backed solitude of Rocky Point, to the great Ram Head,
and the straggling harbour of Port Davey, all is bleak and cheerless.
Upon that dreary beach the rollers of the southern sea complete their circuit
of the globe, and the storm that has devastated the Cape,
and united in its eastern course with the icy blasts which sweep northward
from the unknown terrors of the southern pole, crashes unchecked
upon the Huon pine forests, and lashes with rain the grim front
of Mount Direction.  Furious gales and sudden tempests affright the natives
of the coast.  Navigation is dangerous, and the entrance to the "Hell's Gates"
of Macquarie Harbour--at the time of which we are writing (1833),
in the height of its ill-fame as a convict settlement--is only to be attempted
in calm weather.  The sea-line is marked with wrecks.  The sunken rocks
are dismally named after the vessels they have destroyed.  The air is chill
and moist, the soil prolific only in prickly undergrowth and noxious weeds,
while foetid exhalations from swamp and fen cling close to the humid,
spongy ground.  All around breathes desolation; on the face of nature
is stamped a perpetual frown.  The shipwrecked sailor, crawling painfully
to the summit of basalt cliffs, or the ironed convict, dragging his tree trunk
to the edge of some beetling plateau, looks down upon a sea of fog,
through which rise mountain-tops like islands; or sees through
the biting sleet a desert of scrub and crag rolling to the feet
of Mount Heemskirk and Mount Zeehan--crouched like two sentinel lions
keeping watch over the seaboard.




CHAPTER II.

THE SOLITARY OF "HELL'S GATES".



"Hell's  Gates," formed by a rocky point, which runs abruptly northward,
almost touches, on its eastern side, a projecting arm of land which guards
the entrance to King's River.  In the middle of the gates is
a natural bolt--that is to say, an island-which, lying on a sandy bar
in the very jaws of the current, creates a double whirlpool, impossible to pass
in the smoothest weather.  Once through the gates, the convict,
chained on the deck of the inward-bound vessel, sees in front of him
the bald cone of the Frenchman's Cap, piercing the moist air at a height
of five thousand feet; while, gloomed by overhanging rocks, and shadowed by
gigantic forests, the black sides of the basin narrow to the mouth
of the Gordon.  The turbulent stream is the colour of indigo, and,
being fed by numerous rivulets, which ooze through masses of decaying vegetable
matter, is of so poisonous a nature that it is not only undrinkable,
but absolutely kills the fish, which in stormy weather are driven in
from the sea.  As may be imagined, the furious tempests which beat upon
this exposed coast create a strong surf-line.  After a few days
of north-west wind the waters of the Gordon will be found salt
for twelve miles up from the bar.  The head-quarters of the settlement
were placed on an island not far from the mouth of this inhospitable river,
called Sarah Island.

Though now the whole place is desolate, and a few rotting posts and logs
alone remain-mute witnesses of scenes of agony never to be revived--in the year
1833 the buildings were numerous and extensive.  On Philip's Island,
on the north side of the harbour, was a small farm, where vegetables were grown
for the use of the officers of the establishment; and, on Sarah Island,
were sawpits, forges, dockyards, gaol, guard-house, barracks, and jetty.
The military force numbered about sixty men, who, with convict-warders
and constables, took charge of more than three hundred and fifty prisoners.
These miserable wretches, deprived of every hope, were employed
in the most degrading labour.  No beast of burden was allowed
on the settlement; all the pulling and dragging was done by human beings.
About one hundred "good-conduct" men were allowed the lighter toil
of dragging timber to the wharf, to assist in shipbuilding;
the others cut down the trees that fringed the mainland, and carried them
on their shoulders to the water's edge.  The denseness of the scrub
and bush rendered it necessary for a "roadway," perhaps a quarter of a mile
in length, to be first constructed; and the trunks of trees,
stripped of their branches, were rolled together in this roadway,
until a "slide" was made, down which the heavier logs could be shunted
towards the harbour.  The timber thus obtained was made into rafts,
and floated to the sheds, or arranged for transportation to Hobart Town.
The convicts were lodged on Sarah Island, in barracks flanked
by a two-storied prison, whose "cells" were the terror of the most hardened.
Each morning they received their breakfast of porridge, water, and salt,
and then rowed, under the protection of their guard,
to the wood-cutting stations, where they worked without food, until night.
The launching and hewing of the timber compelled them to work
up to their waists in water.  Many of them were heavily ironed.
Those who died were buried on a little plot of ground, called Halliday's Island
(from the name of the first man buried there), and a plank
stuck into the earth, and carved with the initials of the deceased,
was the only monument vouchsafed him.

Sarah Island, situated at the south-east corner of the harbour,
is long and low.  The commandant's house was built in the centre,
having the chaplain's house and barracks between it and the gaol.
The hospital was on the west shore, and in a line with it lay
the two penitentiaries.  Lines of lofty palisades ran round the settlement,
giving it the appearance of a fortified town.  These palisades were built
for the purpose of warding off the terrific blasts of wind, which,
shrieking through the long and narrow bay as through the keyhole of a door,
had in former times tore off roofs and levelled boat-sheds.  The little town
was set, as it were, in defiance of Nature, at the very extreme
of civilization, and its inhabitants maintained perpetual warfare
with the winds and waves.

But the gaol of Sarah Island was not the only prison in this desolate region.

At a little distance from the mainland is a rock, over the rude side of which
the waves dash in rough weather.  On the evening of the 3rd December, 1833,
as the sun was sinking behind the tree-tops on the left side of the harbour,
the figure of a man appeared on the top of this rock.  He was clad
in the coarse garb of a convict, and wore round his ankles two iron rings,
connected by a short and heavy chain.  To the middle of this chain
a leathern strap was attached, which, splitting in the form of a T,
buckled round his waist, and pulled the chain high enough to prevent him
from stumbling over it as he walked.  His head was bare, and his coarse,
blue-striped shirt, open at the throat, displayed an embrowned
and muscular neck.  Emerging from out a sort of cell, or den,
contrived by nature or art in the side of the cliff, he threw on a scanty fire,
which burned between two hollowed rocks, a small log of pine wood,
and then returning to his cave, and bringing from it an iron pot,
which contained water, he scooped with his toil-hardened hands
a resting-place for it in the ashes, and placed it on the embers.
It was evident that the cave was at once his storehouse and larder,
and that the two hollowed rocks formed his kitchen.

Having thus made preparations for supper, he ascended a pathway
which led to the highest point of the rock.  His fetters compelled him
to take short steps, and, as he walked, he winced as though the iron bit him.
A handkerchief or strip of cloth was twisted round his left ankle;
on which the circlet had chafed a sore.  Painfully and slowly,
he gained his destination, and flinging himself on the ground,
gazed around him.  The afternoon had been stormy, and the rays
of the setting sun shone redly on the turbid and rushing waters of the bay.
On the right lay Sarah Island; on the left the bleak shore of the opposite
and the tall peak of the Frenchman's Cap; while the storm hung sullenly
over the barren hills to the eastward.  Below him appeared
the only sign of life.  A brig was being towed up the harbour
by two convict-manned boats.

The sight of this brig seemed to rouse in the mind of the solitary of the rock
a strain of reflection, for, sinking his chin upon his hand,
he fixed his eyes on the incoming vessel, and immersed himself
in moody thought.  More than an hour had passed, yet he did not move.
The ship anchored, the boats detached themselves from her sides,
the sun sank, and the bay was plunged in gloom.  Lights began to twinkle
along the shore of the settlement.  The little fire died, and the water
in the iron pot grew cold; yet the watcher on the rock did not stir.
With his eyes staring into the gloom, and fixed steadily on the vessel,
he lay along the barren cliff of his lonely prison as motionless as the rock
on which he had stretched himself.

This solitary man was Rufus Dawes.




CHAPTER III.

A SOCIAL EVENING.



In the house of Major Vickers, Commandant of Macquarie Harbour,
there was, on this evening of December 3rd, unusual gaiety.

Lieutenant Maurice Frere, late in command at Maria Island, had unexpectedly
come down with news from head-quarters.  The Ladybird, Government schooner,
visited the settlement on ordinary occasions twice a year, and such visits
were looked forward to with no little eagerness by the settlers.
To the convicts the arrival of the Ladybird meant arrival of new faces,
intelligence of old comrades, news of how the world, from which
they were exiled, was progressing.  When the Ladybird arrived,
the chained and toil-worn felons felt that they were yet human,
that the universe was not bounded by the gloomy forests which surrounded
their prison, but that there was a world beyond, where men, like themselves,
smoked, and drank, and laughed, and rested, and were Free.
When the Ladybird arrived, they heard such news as interested them--that is
to say, not mere foolish accounts of wars or ship arrivals, or city gossip,
but matters appertaining to their own world--how Tom was with the road gangs,
Dick on a ticket-of-leave, Harry taken to the bush, and Jack
hung at the Hobart Town Gaol.  Such items of intelligence were the only news
they cared to hear, and the new-comers were well posted up in such matters.
To the convicts the Ladybird was town talk, theatre, stock quotations,
and latest telegrams.  She was their newspaper and post-office,
the one excitement of their dreary existence, the one link between
their own misery and the happiness of their fellow-creatures.
To the Commandant and the "free men" this messenger from the outer life
was scarcely less welcome.  There was not a man on the island
who did not feel his heart grow heavier when her white sails disappeared
behind the shoulder of the hill.

On the present occasion business of more than ordinary importance
had procured for Major Vickers this pleasurable excitement.
It had been resolved by Governor Arthur that the convict establishment
should be broken up.  A succession of murders and attempted escapes
had called public attention to the place, and its distance from Hobart Town
rendered it inconvenient and expensive.  Arthur had fixed upon
Tasman's Peninsula--the earring of which we have spoken--as a future
convict depot, and naming it Port Arthur, in honour of himself,
had sent down Lieutenant Maurice Frere with instructions for Vickers
to convey the prisoners of Macquarie Harbour thither.

In order to understand the magnitude and meaning of such an order
as that with which Lieutenant Frere was entrusted, we must glance
at the social condition of the penal colony at this period of its history.

Nine years before, Colonel Arthur, late Governor of Honduras,
had arrived at a most critical moment.  The former Governor,
Colonel Sorrell, was a man of genial temperament, but little strength
of character.  He was, moreover, profligate in his private life;
and, encouraged by his example, his officers violated all rules
of social decency.  It was common for an officer to openly keep
a female convict as his mistress.  Not only would compliance purchase comforts,
but strange stories were afloat concerning the persecution of women
who dared to choose their own lovers.  To put down this profligacy
was the first care of Arthur; and in enforcing a severe attention to etiquette
and outward respectability, he perhaps erred on the side of virtue.
Honest, brave, and high-minded, he was also penurious and cold,
and the ostentatious good humour of the colonists dashed itself
in vain against his polite indifference.  In opposition to this
official society created by Governor Arthur was that of the free settlers
and the ticket-of-leave men.  The latter were more numerous
than one would be apt to suppose.  On the 2nd November, 1829,
thirty-eight free pardons and fifty-six conditional pardons
appeared on the books; and the number of persons holding tickets-of-leave,
on the 26th of September the same year, was seven hundred and forty-five.

Of the social condition of these people at this time it is impossible to speak
without astonishment.  According to the recorded testimony
of many respectable persons-Government officials, military officers,
and free settlers-the profligacy of the settlers was notorious.
Drunkenness was a prevailing vice.  Even children were to be seen
in the streets intoxicated.  On Sundays, men and women might be observed
standing round the public-house doors, waiting for the expiration of the hours
of public worship, in order to continue their carousing.
As for the condition of the prisoner population, that, indeed,
is indescribable.  Notwithstanding the severe punishment for sly grog-selling,
it was carried on to a large extent.  Men and women were found
intoxicated together, and a bottle of brandy was considered to be
cheaply bought at the price of twenty lashes.  In the factory--a prison
for females--the vilest abuses were committed, while the infamies current,
as matters of course, in chain gangs and penal settlements,
were of too horrible a nature to be more than hinted at here.
All that the vilest and most bestial of human creatures could invent
and practise, was in this unhappy country invented and practised
without restraint and without shame.

Seven classes of criminals were established in 1826, when the new barracks
for prisoners at Hobart Town were finished.  The first class were allowed
to sleep out of barracks, and to work for themselves on Saturday;
the second had only the last-named indulgence; the third were only allowed
Saturday afternoon; the fourth and fifth were "refractory and disorderly
characters--to work in irons;" the sixth were "men of the most degraded
and incorrigible character--to be worked in irons, and kept entirely separate
from the other prisoners;" while the seventh were the refuse
of this refuse--the murderers, bandits, and villains, whom neither chain
nor lash could tame.  They were regarded as socially dead,
and shipped to Hell's Gates, or Maria Island.  Hells Gates was
the most dreaded of all these houses of bondage.  The discipline at the place
was so severe, and the life so terrible, that prisoners would risk all
to escape from it.  In one year, of eighty-five deaths there,
only thirty were from natural causes; of the remaining dead,
twenty-seven were drowned, eight killed accidentally, three shot
by the soldiers, and twelve murdered by their comrades.  In 1822,
one hundred and sixty-nine men out of one hundred and eighty-two
were punished to the extent of two thousand lashes.  During the ten years
of its existence, one hundred and twelve men escaped, out of whom
sixty-two only were found-dead.  The prisoners killed themselves
to avoid living any longer, and if so fortunate as to penetrate the desert
of scrub, heath, and swamp, which lay between their prison
and the settled districts, preferred death to recapture.
Successfully to transport the remnant of this desperate band
of doubly-convicted felons to Arthur's new prison, was the mission
of Maurice Frere.

He was sitting by the empty fire-place, with one leg carelessly thrown
over the other, entertaining the company with his usual indifferent air.
The six years that had passed since his departure from England
had given him a sturdier frame and a fuller face.  His hair was coarser,
his face redder, and his eye more hard, but in demeanour he was little changed.
Sobered he might be, and his voice had acquired that decisive,
insured tone which a voice exercised only in accents of command
invariably acquires, but his bad qualities were as prominent as ever.
His five years' residence at Maria Island had increased that brutality
of thought, and overbearing confidence in his own importance,
for which he had been always remarkable, but it had also given him
an assured air of authority, which covered the more unpleasant features
of his character.  He was detested by the prisoners--as he said,
"it was a word and a blow with him"--but, among his superiors,
he passed for an officer, honest and painstaking, though somewhat bluff
and severe.

"Well, Mrs. Vickers," he said, as he took a cup of tea from the hands
of that lady, "I suppose you won't be sorry to get away from this place, eh?
Trouble you for the toast, Vickers!"

"No indeed," says poor Mrs. Vickers, with the old girlishness
shadowed by six years; "I shall be only too glad.  A dreadful place!
John's duties, however, are imperative.  But the wind!  My dear Mr. Frere,
you've no idea of it; I wanted to send Sylvia to Hobart Town,
but John would not let her go."

"By the way, how is Miss Sylvia?" asked Frere, with the patronising air
which men of his stamp adopt when they speak of children.

"Not very well, I'm sorry to say," returned Vickers.  "You see,
it's lonely for her here.  There are no children of her own age,
with the exception of the pilot's little girl, and she cannot associate
with her.  But I did not like to leave her behind, and endeavoured
to teach her myself."

"Hum!  There was a-ha-governess, or something, was there not?"
said Frere, staring into his tea-cup.  "That maid, you know--what was her name?"

"Miss Purfoy," said Mrs. Vickers, a little gravely.  "Yes, poor thing!
A sad story, Mr. Frere."

Frere's eye twinkled.

"Indeed!  I left, you know, shortly after the trial of the mutineers,
and never heard the full particulars." He spoke carelessly,
but he awaited the reply with keen curiosity.

"A sad story!" repeated Mrs. Vickers.  "She was the wife of that wretched man,
Rex, and came out as my maid in order to be near him.  She would never tell me
her history, poor thing, though all through the dreadful accusations
made by that horrid doctor--I always disliked that man--I begged her
almost on my knees.  You know how she nursed Sylvia and poor John.
Really a most superior creature.  I think she must have been a governess."

Mr. Frere raised his eyebrows abruptly, as though he would say,
Governess!   Of course.  Happy suggestion.  Wonder it never occurred
to me before.  "However, her conduct was most exemplary--really
most exemplary--and during the six months we were in Hobart Town
she taught little Sylvia a great deal.  Of course she could not help
her wretched husband, you know.  Could she?"

"Certainly not!" said Frere heartily.  "I heard something about him too.
Got into some scrape, did he not?  Half a cup, please."

"Miss Purfoy, or Mrs. Rex, as she really was, though I don't suppose
Rex is her real name either--sugar and milk, I think you said--came into
a little legacy from an old aunt in England."  Mr. Frere gave
a little bluff nod, meaning thereby, Old aunt!   Exactly.  Just what might have
been expected.  "And left my service.  She took a little cottage
on the New Town road, and Rex was assigned to her as her servant."

"I see.  The old dodge!" says Frere, flushing a little.  "Well?"

"Well, the wretched man tried to escape, and she helped him.
He was to get to Launceston, and so on board a vessel to Sydney;
but they took the unhappy creature, and he was sent down here.
She was only fined, but it ruined her."

"Ruined her?"

"Well, you see, only a few people knew of her relationship to Rex,
and she was rather respected.  Of course, when it became known,
what with that dreadful trial and the horrible assertions of Dr. Pine
--you will not believe me, I know, there was something about that man
I never liked--she was quite left alone.  She wanted me to bring her down here
to teach Sylvia; but John thought that it was only to be near her husband,
and wouldn't allow it."

"Of course it was," said Vickers, rising.  "Frere, if you'd like to smoke,
we'll go on the verandah.-She will never be satisfied until she gets
that scoundrel free." "He's a bad lot, then?" says Frere,
opening the glass window, and leading the way to the sandy garden.
"You will excuse my roughness, Mrs. Vickers, but I have become quite a slave
to my pipe.  Ha, ha, it's wife and child to me!"

"Oh, a very bad lot," returned Vickers; "quiet and silent,
but ready for any villainy.  I count him one of the worst men we have.
With the exception of one or two more, I think he is the worst."

"Why don't you flog 'em?" says Frere, lighting his pipe in the gloom.
"By George, sir, I cut the hides off my fellows if they show any nonsense!"

"Well," says Vickers, "I don't care about too much cat myself.
Barton, who was here before me, flogged tremendously, but I don't think
it did any good.  They tried to kill him several times.
You remember those twelve fellows who were hung?  No!  Ah, of course,
you were away."

"What do you do with 'em?" 

"Oh, flog the worst, you know; but I don't flog more than a man a week,
as a rule, and never more than fifty lashes.  They're getting quieter now.
Then we iron, and dumb-cells, and maroon them."

"Do what?"

"Give them solitary confinement on Grummet Island.  When a man gets very bad,
we clap him into a boat with a week's provisions and pull him over to Grummet.
There are cells cut in the rock, you see, and the fellow pulls up
his commissariat after him, and lives there by himself for a month or so.
It tames them wonderfully."

"Does it?" said Frere.  "By Jove!  it's a capital notion.  I wish I had a place
of that sort at Maria."

"I've a fellow there now," says Vickers; "Dawes.  You remember him,
of course--the ringleader of the mutiny in the Malabar.
A dreadful ruffian.  He was most violent the first year I was here.
Barton used to flog a good deal, and Dawes had a childish dread of the cat.
When I came in--when was it?--in '29, he'd made a sort of petition
to be sent back to the settlement.  Said that he was innocent of the mutiny,
and that the accusation against him was false."

"The old dodge," said Frere again.  "A match?  Thanks."

"Of course, I couldn't let him go; but I took him out of the chain-gang,
and put him on the Osprey.  You saw her in the dock as you came in.
He worked for some time very well, and then tried to bolt again."

"The old trick.  Ha! ha! don't I know it?" says Mr. Frere,
emitting a streak of smoke in the air, expressive of preternatural wisdom.

"Well, we caught him, and gave him fifty.  Then he was sent to the chain-gang,
cutting timber.  Then we put him into the boats, but he quarrelled
with the coxswain, and then we took him back to the timber-rafts.
About six weeks ago he made another attempt--together with Gabbett,
the man who nearly killed you--but his leg was chafed with the irons,
and we took him.  Gabbett and three more, however, got away."

"Haven't you found 'em?" asked Frere, puffing at his pipe.

"No.  But they'll come to the same fate as the rest," said Vickers,
with a sort of dismal pride.  "No man ever escaped from Macquarie Harbour."

Frere laughed.  "By the Lord!" said he, "it will be rather hard for 'em
if they don't come back before the end of the month, eh?"

"Oh," said Vickers, "they're sure to come--if they can come at all;
but once lost in the scrub, a man hasn't much chance for his life."

"When do you think you will be ready to move?" asked Frere.

"As soon as you wish.  I don't want to stop a moment longer than I can help.
It is a terrible life, this."

"Do you think so?" asked his companion, in unaffected surprise.
"I like it.  It's dull, certainly.  When I first went to Maria
I was dreadfully bored, but one soon gets used to it.  There is a sort
of satisfaction to me, by George, in keeping the scoundrels in order.
I like to see the fellows' eyes glint at you as you walk past 'em.
Gad, they'd tear me to pieces, if they dared, some of 'em!"
and he laughed grimly, as though the hate he inspired was a thing
to be proud of.

"How shall we go?" asked Vickers.  "Have you got any instructions?"

"No," says Frere; "it's all left to you.  Get 'em up the best way you can,
Arthur said, and pack 'em off to the new peninsula.  He thinks you
too far off here, by George!  He wants to have you within hail."

"It's dangerous taking so many at once," suggested Vickers.

"Not a bit.  Batten 'em down and keep the sentries awake,
and they won't do any harm."

"But Mrs. Vickers and the child?"

"I've thought of that.  You take the Ladybird with the prisoners,
and leave me to bring up Mrs. Vickers in the Osprey."

"We might do that.  Indeed, it's the best way, I think.  I don't like
the notion of having Sylvia among those wretches, and yet
I don't like to leave her."

"Well," says Frere, confident of his own ability to accomplish anything
he might undertake, "I'll take the Ladybird, and you the Osprey.
Bring up Mrs. Vickers yourself."

"No, no," said Vickers, with a touch of his old pomposity,
"that won't do.  By the King's Regulations--"

"All right," interjected Frere, "you needn't quote 'em.
'The officer commanding is obliged to place himself in charge'--all right,
my dear sir.  I've no objection in life."

"It was Sylvia that I was thinking of," said Vickers.

"Well, then," cries the other, as the door of the room inside opened,
and a little white figure came through into the broad verandah.
"Here she is!  Ask her yourself.  Well, Miss Sylvia, will you come
and shake hands with an old friend?"

The bright-haired baby of the Malabar had become a bright-haired child
of some eleven years old, and as she stood in her simple white dress
in the glow of the lamplight, even the unaesthetic mind of Mr. Frere
was struck by her extreme beauty.  Her bright blue eyes were as bright
and as blue as ever.  Her little figure was as upright and as supple
as a willow rod; and her innocent, delicate face was framed in a nimbus
of that fine golden hair--dry and electrical, each separate thread
shining with a lustre of its own--with which the dreaming painters
of the middle ages endowed and glorified their angels.

"Come and give me a kiss, Miss Sylvia!" cries Frere.
"You haven't forgotten me, have you?"

But the child, resting one hand on her father's knee, surveyed Mr. Frere
from head to foot with the charming impertinence of childhood, and then,
shaking her head, inquired: "Who is he, papa?"

"Mr. Frere, darling.  Don't you remember Mr. Frere, who used to play ball
with you on board the ship, and who was so kind to you
when you were getting well?  For shame, Sylvia!"

There was in the chiding accents such an undertone of tenderness,
that the reproof fell harmless.

"I remember you," said Sylvia, tossing her head; "but you were nicer then
than you are now.  I don't like you at all."

"You don't remember me," said Frere, a little disconcerted,
and affecting to be intensely at his ease.  "I am sure you don't.
What is my name?"

"Lieutenant Frere.  You knocked down a prisoner who picked up my ball.
I don't like you."

"You're a forward young lady, upon my word!" said Frere, with a great laugh.
"Ha! ha! so I did, begad, I recollect now.  What a memory you've got!"

"He's here now, isn't he, papa?" went on Sylvia, regardless of interruption.
"Rufus Dawes is his name, and he's always in trouble.  Poor fellow,
I'm sorry for him.  Danny says he's queer in his mind."

"And who's Danny?" asked Frere, with another laugh.

"The cook," replied Vickers.  "An old man I took out of hospital.
Sylvia, you talk too much with the prisoners.  I have forbidden you
once or twice before."

"But Danny is not a prisoner, papa--he's a cook," says Sylvia,
nothing abashed, "and he's a clever man.  He told me all about London,
where the Lord Mayor rides in a glass coach, and all the work is done
by free men.  He says you never hear chains there.  I should like
to see London, papa!"

"So would Mr. Danny, I have no doubt," said Frere.

"No--he didn't say that.  But he wants to see his old mother,
he says.  Fancy Danny's mother!  What an ugly old woman she must be!
He says he'll see her in Heaven.  Will he, papa?"

"I hope so, my dear."

"Papa!"

"Yes."

"Will Danny wear his yellow jacket in Heaven, or go as a free man?"

Frere burst into a roar at this.

"You're an impertinent fellow, sir!" cried Sylvia, her bright eyes flashing.
"How dare you laugh at me?  If I was papa, I'd give you half an hour
at the triangles.  Oh, you impertinent man!" and, crimson with rage,
the spoilt little beauty ran out of the room.  Vickers looked grave,
but Frere was constrained to get up to laugh at his ease.

"Good!  'Pon honour, that's good!  The little vixen!--Half an hour
at the triangles!  Ha-ha! ha, ha, ha!"

"She is a strange child," said Vickers, "and talks strangely for her age;
but you mustn't mind her.  She is neither girl nor woman, you see;
and her education has been neglected.  Moreover, this gloomy place
and its associations--what can you expect from a child
bred in a convict settlement?"

"My dear sir," says the other, "she's delightful!  Her innocence of the world
is amazing!"

"She must have three or four years at a good finishing school at Sydney.
Please God, I will give them to her when we go back--or send her to England
if I can.  She is a good-hearted girl, but she wants polishing sadly,
I'm afraid."

Just then someone came up the garden path and saluted.

"What is it, Troke?"

"Prisoner given himself up, sir."

"Which of them?"

"Gabbett.  He came back to-night."

"Alone?" "Yes, sir.  The rest have died--he says."

"What's that?" asked Frere, suddenly interested.

"The bolter I was telling you about--Gabbett, your old friend.  He's returned."

"How long has he been out?"

"Nigh six weeks, sir," said the constable, touching his cap.

"Gad, he's had a narrow squeak for it, I'll be bound.
I should like to see him."

"He's down at the sheds," said the ready Troke--a "good conduct" burglar.
You can see him at once, gentlemen, if you like."

"What do you say, Vickers?"

"Oh, by all means."




CHAPTER IV.

THE BOLTER.



It was not far to the sheds, and after a few minutes' walk
through the wooden palisades they reached a long stone building,
two storeys high, from which issued a horrible growling,
pierced with shrilly screamed songs.  At the sound of the musket butts
clashing on the pine-wood flagging, the noises ceased, and a silence
more sinister than sound fell on the place.

Passing between two rows of warders, the two officers reached
a sort of ante-room to the gaol, containing a pine-log stretcher,
on which a mass of something was lying.  On a roughly-made stool,
by the side of this stretcher, sat a man, in the grey dress
(worn as a contrast to the yellow livery) of "good conduct" prisoners.
This man held between his knees a basin containing gruel,
and was apparently endeavouring to feed the mass on the pine logs.

"Won't he eat, Steve?" asked Vickers.

And at the sound of the Commandant's voice, Steve arose.

"Dunno what's wrong wi' 'un, sir," he said, jerking up a finger
to his forehead.  "He seems jest muggy-pated.  I can't do nothin' wi' 'un."

"Gabbett!"

The intelligent Troke, considerately alive to the wishes
of his superior officers, dragged the mass into a sitting posture.

Gabbett--for it was he--passed one great hand over his face,
and leaning exactly in the position in which Troke placed him,
scowled, bewildered, at his visitors.

"Well, Gabbett," says Vickers, "you've come back again, you see.
When will you learn sense, eh?  Where are your mates?"

The giant did not reply.

"Do you hear me?  Where are your mates?"

"Where are your mates?"  repeated Troke.

"Dead," says Gabbett.

"All three of them?"

"Ay."

"And how did you get back?"

Gabbett, in eloquent silence, held out a bleeding foot.

"We found him on the point, sir," said Troke, jauntily explaining,
"and brought him across in the boat.  He had a basin of gruel,
but he didn't seem hungry."

"Are you hungry?"

"Yes."

"Why don't you eat your gruel?"

Gabbett curled his great lips.

"I have eaten it.  Ain't yer got nuffin' better nor that to flog a man on?
Ugh!  yer a mean lot!  Wot's it to be this time, Major?  Fifty?"

And laughing, he rolled down again on the logs.

"A nice specimen!" said Vickers, with a hopeless smile.
"What can one do with such a fellow?"

"I'd flog his soul out of his body," said Frere,
"if he spoke to me like that!"

Troke and the others, hearing the statement, conceived an instant respect
for the new-comer.  He looked as if he would keep his word.

The giant raised his great head and looked at the speaker,
but did not recognize him.  He saw only a strange face--a visitor perhaps.
"You may flog, and welcome, master," said he, "if you'll give me
a fig o' tibbacky." Frere laughed.  The brutal indifference of the rejoinder
suited his humour, and, with a glance at Vickers, he took a small piece
of cavendish from the pocket of his pea-jacket, and gave it
to the recaptured convict.  Gabbett snatched it as a cur snatches at a bone,
and thrust it whole into his mouth.

"How many mates had he?" asked Maurice, watching the champing jaws
as one looks at a strange animal, and asking the question as though
a "mate" was something a convict was born with--like a mole, for instance.

"Three, sir."

"Three, eh?  Well, give him thirty lashes, Vickers."

"And if I ha' had three more," growled Gabbett, mumbling at his tobacco,
"you wouldn't ha' had the chance."

"What does he say?"

But Troke had not heard, and the "good-conduct" man, shrinking as it seemed,
slightly from the prisoner, said he had not heard either.
The wretch himself, munching hard at his tobacco, relapsed
into his restless silence, and was as though he had never spoken.

As he sat there gloomily chewing, he was a spectacle to shudder at.
Not so much on account of his natural hideousness, increased a thousand-fold
by the tattered and filthy rags which barely covered him.
Not so much on account of his unshaven jaws, his hare-lip,
his torn and bleeding feet, his haggard cheeks, and his huge, wasted frame.
Not only because, looking at the animal, as he crouched,
with one foot curled round the other, and one hairy arm pendant
between his knees, he was so horribly unhuman, that one shuddered
to think that tender women and fair children must, of necessity,
confess to fellowship of kind with such a monster.  But also because,
in his slavering mouth, his slowly grinding jaws, his restless fingers,
and his bloodshot, wandering eyes, there lurked a hint of some terror
more awful than the terror of starvation--a memory of a tragedy played out
in the gloomy depths of that forest which had vomited him forth again;
and the shadow of this unknown horror, clinging to him, repelled and disgusted,
as though he bore about with him the reek of the shambles.

"Come," said Vickers, "Let us go back.  I shall have to flog him again,
I suppose.  Oh, this place!  No wonder they call it 'Hell's Gates'."

"You are too soft-hearted, my dear sir," said Frere, half-way up
the palisaded path.  "We must treat brutes like brutes."

Major Vickers, inured as he was to such sentiments, sighed.  "It is not for me
to find fault with the system," he said, hesitating, in his reverence
for "discipline", to utter all the thought; "but I have sometimes wondered
if kindness would not succeed better than the chain and the cat."

"Your old ideas!" laughed his companion.  "Remember, they nearly cost us
our lives on the Malabar.  No, no.  I've seen something of convicts--though,
to be sure, my fellows were not so bad as yours--and there's only one way.
Keep 'em down, sir.  Make 'em feel what they are.  They're there to work, sir.
If they won't work, flog 'em until they will.  If they work well--why a taste
of the cat now and then keeps 'em in mind of what they may expect
if they get lazy." They had reached the verandah now.
The rising moon shone softly on the bay beneath them, and touched
with her white light the summit of the Grummet Rock.

"That is the general opinion, I know," returned Vickers.
"But consider the life they lead.  Good God!" he added, with sudden vehemence,
as Frere paused to look at the bay.  "I'm not a cruel man, and never,
I believe, inflicted an unmerited punishment, but since I have been here
ten prisoners have drowned themselves from yonder rock, rather than live
on in their misery.  Only three weeks ago, two men, with a wood-cutting party
in the hills, having had some words with the overseer, shook hands
with the gang, and then, hand in hand, flung themselves over the cliff.
It's horrible to think of!"

"They shouldn't get sent here," said practical Frere.  "They knew what
they had to expect.  Serve 'em right."

"But imagine an innocent man condemned to this place!"

"I can't," said Frere, with a laugh.  "Innocent man be hanged!
They're all innocent, if you'd believe their own stories.
Hallo! what's that red light there?"

"Dawes's fire, on Grummet Rock," says Vickers, going in; "the man
I told you about.  Come in and have some brandy-and-water,
and we'll shut the door in place."




CHAPTER V.

SYLVIA.



"Well," said Frere, as they went in, "you'll be out of it soon.
You can get all ready to start by the end of the month, and I'll bring on
Mrs. Vickers afterwards."

"What is that you say about me?" asked the sprightly Mrs. Vickers from within.
"You wicked men, leaving me alone all this time!"

"Mr. Frere has kindly offered to bring you and Sylvia after us in the Osprey.
I shall, of course, have to take the Ladybird."

"You are most kind, Mr. Frere, really you are," says Mrs. Vickers,
a recollection of her flirtation with a certain young lieutenant,
six years before, tinging her cheeks.  "It is really most considerate of you.
Won't it be nice, Sylvia, to go with Mr. Frere and mamma to Hobart Town?"

"Mr. Frere," says Sylvia, coming from out a corner of the room,
"I am very sorry for what I said just now.  Will you forgive me?"

She asked the question in such a prim, old-fashioned way, standing
in front of him, with her golden locks streaming over her shoulders,
and her hands clasped on her black silk apron (Julia Vickers
had her own notions about dressing her daughter), that Frere was again
inclined to laugh.

"Of course I'll forgive you, my dear," he said.  "You didn't mean it, I know."

"Oh, but I did mean it, and that's why I'm sorry.  I am a very naughty girl
sometimes, though you wouldn't think so" (this with a charming consciousness
of her own beauty), "especially with Roman history.  I don't think the Romans
were half as brave as the Carthaginians; do you, Mr. Frere?"

Maurice, somewhat staggered by this question, could only ask, "Why not?"

"Well, I don't like them half so well myself," says Sylvia,
with feminine disdain of reasons.  "They always had so many soldiers,
though the others were so cruel when they conquered."

"Were they?" says Frere.

"Were they!  Goodness gracious, yes!  Didn't they cut poor Regulus's eyelids
off, and roll him down hill in a barrel full of nails?  What do you call that,
I should like to know?" and Mr. Frere, shaking his red head
with vast assumption of classical learning, could not but concede
that that was not kind on the part of the Carthaginians.

"You are a great scholar, Miss Sylvia," he remarked, with a consciousness
that this self-possessed girl was rapidly taking him out of his depth.

"Are you fond of reading?"

"Very."

"And what books do you read?"

"Oh, lots!  'Paul and Virginia", and 'Paradise Lost', and
'Shakespeare's Plays', and 'Robinson Crusoe', and 'Blair's Sermons',
and 'The Tasmanian Almanack', and 'The Book of Beauty', and 'Tom Jones'."

"A somewhat miscellaneous collection, I fear," said Mrs. Vickers,
with a sickly smile--she, like Gallio, cared for none of these things--
"but our little library is necessarily limited, and I am not a great reader.
John, my dear, Mr. Frere would like another glass of brandy-and-water.
Oh, don't apologize; I am a soldier's wife, you know.  Sylvia, my love,
say good-night to Mr. Frere, and retire."

"Good-night, Miss Sylvia.  Will you give me a kiss?"

"No!"

"Sylvia, don't be rude!"

"I'm not rude," cries Sylvia, indignant at the way in which
her literary confidence had been received.  "He's rude!  I won't kiss you.
Kiss you indeed!  My goodness gracious!"

"Won't you, you little beauty?" cried Frere, suddenly leaning forward,
and putting his arm round the child.  "Then I must kiss you!"

To his astonishment, Sylvia, finding herself thus seized and kissed
despite herself, flushed scarlet, and, lifting up her tiny fist,
struck him on the cheek with all her force.

The blow was so sudden, and the momentary pain so sharp, that Maurice
nearly slipped into his native coarseness, and rapped out an oath.

"My dear Sylvia!" cried Vickers, in tones of grave reproof.

But Frere laughed, caught both the child's hands in one of his own,
and kissed her again and again, despite her struggles.  "There!" he said,
with a sort of triumph in his tone.  "You got nothing by that, you see."

Vickers rose, with annoyance visible on his face, to draw the child away;
and as he did so, she, gasping for breath, and sobbing with rage,
wrenched her wrist free, and in a storm of childish passion
struck her tormentor again and again.  "Man!" she cried, with flaming eyes,
"Let me go!  I hate you!  I hate you!  I hate you!"

"I am very sorry for this, Frere," said Vickers, when the door
was closed again.  "I hope she did not hurt you."

"Not she!  I like her spirit.  Ha, ha!  That's the way with women
all the world over.  Nothing like showing them that they've got a master."

Vickers hastened to turn the conversation, and, amid recollections of old days,
and speculations as to future prospects, the little incident was forgotten.
But when, an hour later, Mr. Frere traversed the passage
that led to his bedroom, he found himself confronted by a little figure
wrapped in a shawl.  It was his childish enemy

"I've waited for you, Mr. Frere," said she, "to beg pardon.
I ought not to have struck you; I am a wicked girl.  Don't say no,
because I am; and if I don't grow better I shall never go to Heaven."

Thus addressing him, the child produced a piece of paper, folded like a letter,
from beneath the shawl, and handed it to him.

"What's this?" he asked.  "Go back to bed, my dear; you'll catch cold."

"It's a written apology; and I sha'n't catch cold, because I've got
my stockings on.  If you don't accept it," she added, with an arching
of the brows, "it is not my fault.  I have struck you, but I apologize.
Being a woman, I can't offer you satisfaction in the usual way."

Mr. Frere stifled the impulse to laugh, and made his courteous adversary
a low bow.

"I accept your apology, Miss Sylvia," said he.

"Then," returned Miss Sylvia, in a lofty manner, "there is nothing more
to be said, and I have the honour to bid you good-night, sir."

The little maiden drew her shawl close around her with immense dignity,
and marched down the passage as calmly as though she had been
Amadis of Gaul himself.

Frere, gaining his room choking with laughter, opened the folded paper
by the light of the tallow candle, and read, in a quaint, childish hand:--

SIR,--I have struck you.  I apologize in writing.  Your humble servant
to command, SYLVIA VICKERS.  

"I wonder what book she took that out of?" he said.  "'Pon my word
she must be a little cracked.  'Gad, it's a queer life for a child
in this place, and no mistake."




CHAPTER VI.

A LEAP IN THE DARK.



Two or three mornings after the arrival of the Ladybird, the solitary prisoner
of the Grummet Rock noticed mysterious movements along the shore
of the island settlement.  The prison boats, which had put off every morning
at sunrise to the foot of the timbered ranges on the other side of the harbour,
had not appeared for some days.  The building of a pier, or breakwater,
running from the western point of the settlement, was discontinued;
and all hands appeared to be occupied with the newly-built Osprey,
which was lying on the slips.  Parties of soldiers also daily left
the Ladybird, and assisted at the mysterious work in progress.  Rufus Dawes,
walking his little round each day, in vain wondered what this unusual commotion
portended.  Unfortunately, no one came to enlighten his ignorance.

A fortnight after this, about the 15th of December, he observed
another curious fact.  All the boats on the island put off one morning
to the opposite side of the harbour, and in the course of the day
a great smoke arose along the side of the hills.  The next day the same
was repeated; and on the fourth day the boats returned, towing behind them
a huge raft.  This raft, made fast to the side of the Ladybird,
proved to be composed of planks, beams, and joists, all of which
were duly hoisted up, and stowed in the hold of the brig.

This set Rufus Dawes thinking.  Could it possibly be that the timber-cutting
was to be abandoned, and that the Government had hit upon some other method
of utilizing its convict labour?  He had hewn timber and built boats,
and tanned hides and made shoes.  Was it possible that some new trade
was to be initiated?  Before he had settled this point to his satisfaction,
he was startled by another boat expedition.  Three boats' crews went down
the bay, and returned, after a day's absence, with an addition to their number
in the shape of four strangers and a quantity of stores and farming implements.
Rufus Dawes, catching sight of these last, came to the conclusion
that the boats had been to Philip's Island, where the "garden" was established,
and had taken off the gardeners and garden produce.  Rufus Dawes decided
that the Ladybird had brought a new commandant--his sight,
trained by his half-savage life, had already distinguished Mr. Maurice Frere--
and that these mysteries were "improvements" under the new rule.
When he arrived at this point of reasoning, another conjecture,
assuming his first to have been correct, followed as a natural consequence.
Lieutenant Frere would be a more severe commandant than Major Vickers.
Now, severity had already reached its height, so far as he was concerned;
so the unhappy man took a final resolution--he would kill himself.
Before we exclaim against the sin of such a determination, let us endeavour
to set before us what the sinner had suffered during the past six years.

We have already a notion of what life on a convict ship means;
and we have seen through what a furnace Rufus Dawes had passed
before he set foot on the barren shore of Hell's Gates.  But to appreciate
in its intensity the agony he suffered since that time, we must multiply
the infamy of the 'tween decks of the Malabar a hundred fold.
In that prison was at least some ray of light.  All were not abominable;
all were not utterly lost to shame and manhood.  Stifling though the prison,
infamous the companionship, terrible the memory of past happiness--
there was yet ignorance of the future, there was yet hope.
But at Macquarie Harbour was poured out the very dregs of this cup
of desolation.  The worst had come, and the worst must for ever remain.
The pit of torment was so deep that one could not even see Heaven.
There was no hope there so long as life remained.  Death alone kept the keys
of that island prison.

Is it possible to imagine, even for a moment, what an innocent man,
gifted with ambition, endowed with power to love and to respect,
must have suffered during one week of such punishment?  We ordinary men,
leading ordinary lives--walking, riding, laughing, marrying and
giving in marriage--can form no notion of such misery as this.
Some dim ideas we may have about the sweetness of liberty and the loathing
that evil company inspires; but that is all.  We know that were we chained
and degraded, fed like dogs, employed as beasts of burden, driven
to our daily toil with threats and blows, and herded with wretches among whom
all that savours of decency and manliness is held in an open scorn,
we should die, perhaps, or go mad.  But we do not know, and can never know,
how unutterably loathsome life must become when shared with such beings
as those who dragged the tree-trunks to the banks of the Gordon, and toiled,
blaspheming, in their irons, on the dismal sandpit of Sarah Island.
No human creature could describe to what depth of personal abasement
and self-loathing one week of such a life would plunge him.
Even if he had the power to write, he dared not.  As one whom in a desert,
seeking for a face, should come to a pool of blood, and
seeing his own reflection, fly--so would such a one hasten from
the contemplation of his own degrading agony.  Imagine such torment
endured for six years!

Ignorant that the sights and sounds about him were symptoms of
the final abandonment of the settlement, and that the Ladybird was sent down
to bring away the prisoners, Rufus Dawes decided upon getting rid of
that burden of life which pressed upon him so heavily.  For six years
he had hewn wood and drawn water; for six years he had hoped against hope;
for six years he had lived in the valley of the shadow of Death.
He dared not recapitulate to himself what he had suffered.  Indeed,
his senses were deadened and dulled by torture.  He cared to remember
only one thing--that he was a Prisoner for Life.  In vain had been
his first dream of freedom.  He had done his best, by good conduct,
to win release; but the villainy of Vetch and Rex had deprived him
of the fruit of his labour.  Instead of gaining credit by his exposure
of the plot on board the Malabar, he was himself deemed guilty,
and condemned, despite his asseverations of innocence.  The knowledge
of his "treachery"--for so it was deemed among his associates--
while it gained for him no credit with the authorities, procured for him
the detestation and ill-will of the monsters among whom he found himself.
On his arrival at Hell's Gates he was a marked man--a Pariah
among those beings who were Pariahs to all the world beside.
Thrice his life was attempted; but he was not then quite tired of living,
and he defended it.  This defence was construed by an overseer into a brawl,
and the irons from which he had been relieved were replaced.
His strength--brute attribute that alone could avail him--made him respected
after this, and he was left at peace.  At first this treatment
was congenial to his temperament; but by and by it became annoying,
then painful, then almost unendurable.  Tugging at his oar,
digging up to his waist in slime, or bending beneath his burden of pine wood,
he looked greedily for some excuse to be addressed.  He would take
double weight when forming part of the human caterpillar along whose back
lay a pine tree, for a word of fellowship.  He would work double tides
to gain a kindly sentence from a comrade.  In his utter desolation
he agonized for the friendship of robbers and murderers.
Then the reaction came, and he hated the very sound of their voices.
He never spoke, and refused to answer when spoken to.  He would even take
his scanty supper alone, did his chain so permit him.  He gained the reputation
of a sullen, dangerous, half-crazy ruffian.  Captain Barton,
the superintendent, took pity on him, and made him his gardener.
He accepted the pity for a week or so, and then Barton,
coming down one morning, found the few shrubs pulled up by the roots,
the flower-beds trampled into barrenness, and his gardener sitting
on the ground among the fragments of his gardening tools.  For this act
of wanton mischief he was flogged.  At the triangles his behaviour
was considered curious.  He wept and prayed to be released,
fell on his knees to Barton, and implored pardon.  Barton would not listen,
and at the first blow the prisoner was silent.  From that time he became
more sullen than ever, only at times he was observed, when alone,
to fling himself on the ground and cry like a child.  It was generally thought
that his brain was affected.

When Vickers came, Dawes sought an interview, and begged to be sent back
to Hobart Town.  This was refused, of course, but he was put to work
on the Osprey.  After working there for some time, and being released
from his irons, he concealed himself on the slip, and in the evening
swam across the harbour.  He was pursued, retaken, and flogged.
Then he ran the dismal round of punishment.  He burnt lime, dragged timber,
and tugged at the oar.  The heaviest and most degrading tasks were always his.
Shunned and hated by his companions, feared by the convict overseers,
and regarded with unfriendly eyes by the authorities, Rufus Dawes was at
the very bottom of that abyss of woe into which he had
voluntarily cast himself.  Goaded to desperation by his own thoughts,
he had joined with Gabbett and the unlucky three in their desperate attempt
to escape; but, as Vickers stated, he had been captured almost instantly.
He was lamed by the heavy irons he wore, and though Gabbett--
with a strange eagerness for which after events accounted--insisted
that he could make good his flight, the unhappy man fell
in the first hundred yards of the terrible race, and was seized
by two volunteers before he could rise again.  His capture helped to secure
the brief freedom of his comrades; for Mr. Troke, content with one prisoner,
checked a pursuit which the nature of the ground rendered dangerous,
and triumphantly brought Dawes back to the settlement as his peace-offering
for the negligence which had resulted in the loss of the other four.
For this madness the refractory convict had been condemned
to the solitude of the Grummet Rock.

In that dismal hermitage, his mind, preying on itself, had become disordered.
He saw visions and dreamt dreams.  He would lie for hours motionless,
staring at the sun or the sea.  He held converse with imaginary beings.
He enacted the scene with his mother over again.  He harangued the rocks,
and called upon the stones about him to witness his innocence
and his sacrifice.  He was visited by the phantoms of his early friends,
and sometimes thought his present life a dream.  Whenever he awoke,
however, he was commanded by a voice within himself to leap
into the surges which washed the walls of his prison, and to dream
these sad dreams no more.

In the midst of this lethargy of body and brain, the unusual occurrences
along the shore of the settlement roused in him a still fiercer hatred of life.
He saw in them something incomprehensible and terrible, and read in them
threats of an increase of misery.  Had he known that the Ladybird
was preparing for sea, and that it had been already decided to fetch him
from the Rock and iron him with the rest for safe passage to Hobart Town,
he might have paused; but he knew nothing, save that the burden of life
was insupportable, and that the time had come for him to be rid of it.

In the meantime, the settlement was in a fever of excitement.
In less than three weeks from the announcement made by Vickers,
all had been got ready.  The Commandant had finally arranged with Frere
as to his course of action.  He would himself accompany the Ladybird
with the main body.  His wife and daughter were to remain until the sailing
of the Osprey, which Mr. Frere--charged with the task of final destruction--
was to bring up as soon as possible.  "I will leave you a corporal's guard,
and ten prisoners as a crew," Vickers said.  "You can work her easily
with that number." To which Frere, smiling at Mrs. Vickers
in a self-satisfied way, had replied that he could do with five prisoners
if necessary, for he knew how to get double work out of the lazy dogs.

Among the incidents which took place during the breaking up was one
which it is necessary to chronicle.  Near Philip's Island, on the north side
of the harbour, is situated Coal Head, where a party had been lately at work.
This party, hastily withdrawn by Vickers to assist in the business
of devastation, had left behind it some tools and timber,
and at the eleventh hour a boat's crew was sent to bring away the debris.
The tools were duly collected, and the pine logs--worth twenty-five shillings
apiece in Hobart Town--duly rafted and chained.  The timber was secured,
and the convicts, towing it after them, pulled for the ship
just as the sun sank.  In the general relaxation of discipline and haste,
the raft had not been made with as much care as usual, and the strong current
against which the boat was labouring assisted the negligence of the convicts.
The logs began to loosen, and although the onward motion of the boat
kept the chain taut, when the rowers slackened their exertions
the mass parted, and Mr. Troke, hooking himself on to the side of the Ladybird,
saw a huge log slip out from its fellows and disappear into the darkness.
Gazing after it with an indignant and disgusted stare, as though it had been
a refractory prisoner who merited two days' "solitary",
he thought he heard a cry from the direction in which it had been borne.
He would have paused to listen, but all his attention was needed
to save the timber, and to prevent the boat from being swamped
by the struggling mass at her stern.

The cry had proceeded from Rufus Dawes.  From his solitary rock
he had watched the boat pass him and make for the Ladybird in the channel,
and he had decided--with that curious childishness into which the mind relapses
on such supreme occasions--that the moment when the gathering gloom
swallowed her up, should be the moment when he would plunge into the surge
below him.  The heavily-labouring boat grew dimmer and dimmer,
as each tug of the oars took her farther from him.  Presently, only the figure
of Mr. Troke in the stern sheets was visible; then that also disappeared,
and as the nose of the timber raft rose on the swell of the next wave,
Rufus Dawes flung himself into the sea.

He was heavily ironed, and he sank like a stone.  He had resolved
not to attempt to swim, and for the first moment kept his arms raised
above his head, in order to sink the quicker.  But, as the short, sharp agony
of suffocation caught him, and the shock of the icy water dispelled
the mental intoxication under which he was labouring,
he desperately struck out, and, despite the weight of his irons,
gained the surface for an instant.  As he did so, all bewildered,
and with the one savage instinct of self-preservation predominant over all
other thoughts, be became conscious of a huge black mass surging upon him
out of the darkness.  An instant's buffet with the current,
an ineffectual attempt to dive beneath it, a horrible sense that the weight
at his feet was dragging him down,--and the huge log, loosened from the raft,
was upon him, crushing him beneath its rough and ragged sides.
All thoughts of self-murder vanished with the presence of actual peril,
and uttering that despairing cry which had been faintly heard by Troke,
he flung up his arms to clutch the monster that was pushing him down to death.
The log passed completely over him, thrusting him beneath the water,
but his hand, scraping along the splintered side, came in contact
with the loop of hide rope that yet hung round the mass, and clutched it
with the tenacity of a death grip.  In another instant he got his head
above water, and making good his hold, twisted himself, by a violent effort,
across the log.

For a moment he saw the lights from the stern windows of the anchored vessels
low in the distance, Grummet Rock disappeared on his left, then, exhausted,
breathless, and bruised, he closed his eyes, and the drifting log
bore him swiftly and silently away into the darkness.  


          *          *          *          *          *          *


At daylight the next morning, Mr. Troke, landing on the prison rock
found it deserted.  The prisoner's cap was lying on the edge
of the little cliff, but the prisoner himself had disappeared.
Pulling back to the Ladybird, the intelligent Troke pondered
on the circumstance, and in delivering his report to Vickers
mentioned the strange cry he had heard the night before.
"It's my belief, sir, that he was trying to swim the bay," he said.
"He must ha' gone to the bottom anyhow, for he couldn't swim five yards
with them irons."

Vickers, busily engaged in getting under weigh, accepted this
very natural supposition without question.  The prisoner had met his death
either by his own act, or by accident.  It was either a suicide
or an attempt to escape, and the former conduct of Rufus Dawes
rendered the latter explanation a more probable one.  In any case, he was dead.
As Mr. Troke rightly surmised, no man could swim the bay in irons;
and when the Ladybird, an hour later, passed the Grummet Rock,
all on board her believed that the corpse of its late occupant
was lying beneath the waves that seethed at its base.




CHAPTER VII.

THE LAST OF MACQUARIE HARBOUR.



Rufus Dawes was believed to be dead by the party on board the Ladybird,
and his strange escape was unknown to those still at Sarah Island.
Maurice Frere, if he bestowed a thought upon the refractory prisoner
of the Rock, believed him to be safely stowed in the hold of the schooner,
and already half-way to Hobart Town; while not one of the eighteen persons
on board the Osprey suspected that the boat which had put off
for the marooned man had returned without him.  Indeed the party
had little leisure for thought; Mr. Frere, eager to prove his ability
and energy, was making strenuous exertions to get away,
and kept his unlucky ten so hard at work that within a week from the departure
of the Ladybird the Osprey was ready for sea.  Mrs. Vickers and the child,
having watched with some excusable regret the process of demolishing
their old home, had settled down in their small cabin in the brig,
and on the evening of the 11th of January, Mr. Bates, the pilot,
who acted as master, informed the crew that Lieutenant Frere had given orders
to weigh anchor at daybreak.

At daybreak accordingly the brig set sail, with a light breeze
from the south-west, and by three o'clock in the afternoon
anchored safely outside the Gates.  Unfortunately the wind shifted
to the north-west, which caused a heavy swell on the bar,
and prudent Mr. Bates, having consideration for Mrs. Vickers and the child,
ran back ten miles into Wellington Bay, and anchored there again
at seven o'clock in the morning.  The tide was running strongly,
and the brig rolled a good deal.  Mrs. Vickers kept to her cabin,
and sent Sylvia to entertain Lieutenant Frere.  Sylvia went,
but was not entertaining.  She had conceived for Frere one of those
violent antipathies which children sometimes own without reason,
and since the memorable night of the apology had been barely civil to him.
In vain did he pet her and compliment her, she was not to be flattered
into liking him.  "I do not like you, sir," she said in her stilted fashion,
"but that need make no difference to you.  You occupy yourself
with your prisoners; I can amuse myself without you, thank you."
"Oh, all right," said Frere, "I don't want to interfere"; but he felt
a little nettled nevertheless.  On this particular evening
the young lady relaxed her severity of demeanour.  Her father away,
and her mother sick, the little maiden felt lonely, and as a last resource
accepted her mother's commands and went to Frere.  He was walking
up and down the deck, smoking.

"Mr. Frere, I am sent to talk to you."

"Are you?  All right--go on."

"Oh dear, no.  It is the gentleman's place to entertain.  Be amusing!"

"Come and sit down then," said Frere, who was in good humour
at the success of his arrangements.  "What shall we talk about?"

"You stupid man!  As if I knew!  It is your place to talk.
Tell me a fairy story."

"'Jack and the Beanstalk'?" suggested Frere.

"Jack and the grandmother!  Nonsense.  Make one up out of your head, you know."

Frere laughed.

"I can't," he said.  "I never did such a thing in my life."

"Then why not begin?  I shall go away if you don't begin."

Frere rubbed his brows.  "Well, have you read--have you read
'Robinson Crusoe?'"--as if the idea was a brilliant one.

"Of course I have," returned Sylvia, pouting.  "Read it?--yes.
Everybody's read 'Robinson Crusoe!'"

"Oh, have they?  Well, I didn't know; let me see now."
And pulling hard at his pipe, he plunged into literary reflection.

Sylvia, sitting beside him, eagerly watching for the happy thought
that never came, pouted and said, "What a stupid, stupid man you are!
I shall be so glad to get back to papa again.  He knows all sorts of stories,
nearly as many as old Danny."

"Danny knows some, then?"

"Danny!"--with as much surprise as if she said "Walter Scott!"
"Of course he does.  I suppose now," putting her head on one side,
with an amusing expression of superiority, "you never heard the story
of the 'Banshee'?"

"No, I never did."

"Nor the 'White Horse of the Peppers'?"

"No."

"No, I suppose not.  Nor the 'Changeling'?  nor the 'Leprechaun'?" "No."

Sylvia got off the skylight on which she had been sitting,
and surveyed the smoking animal beside her with profound contempt.

"Mr. Frere, you are really a most ignorant person.  Excuse me
if I hurt your feelings; I have no wish to do that; but really you are
a most ignorant person--for your age, of course."

Maurice Frere grew a little angry.  "You are very impertinent,
Sylvia," said he.

"Miss Vickers is my name, Lieutenant Frere, and I shall go and talk
to Mr. Bates."

Which threat she carried out on the spot; and Mr. Bates, who had filled
the dangerous office of pilot, told her about divers and coral reefs,
and some adventures of his--a little apocryphal--in the China Seas.
Frere resumed his smoking, half angry with himself, and half angry
with the provoking little fairy.  This elfin creature had a fascination for him
which he could not account for.

However, he saw no more of her that evening, and at breakfast the next morning
she received him with quaint haughtiness.

"When shall we be ready to sail?  Mr. Frere, I'll take some marmalade.
Thank you."

"I don't know, missy," said Bates.  "It's very rough on the Bar;
me and Mr. Frere was a soundin' of it this marnin', and it ain't safe yet."

"Well," said Sylvia, "I do hope and trust we sha'n't be shipwrecked,
and have to swim miles and miles for our lives."

"Ho, ho!" laughed Frere; "don't be afraid.  I'll take care of you."

"Can you swim, Mr. Bates?" asked Sylvia.

"Yes, miss, I can."

"Well, then, you shall take me; I like you.  Mr. Frere can take mamma.
We'll go and live on a desert island, Mr. Bates, won't we,
and grow cocoa-nuts and bread-fruit, and--what nasty hard biscuits!--
I'll be Robinson Crusoe, and you shall be Man Friday.  I'd like to live
on a desert island, if I was sure there were no savages,
and plenty to eat and drink."

"That would be right enough, my dear, but you don't find
them sort of islands every day."

"Then," said Sylvia, with a decided nod, "we won't be ship-wrecked, will we?"

"I hope not, my dear."

"Put a biscuit in your pocket, Sylvia, in case of accidents,"
suggested Frere, with a grin.

"Oh!  you know my opinion of you, sir.  Don't speak;
I don't want any argument".

"Don't you?--that's right."

"Mr. Frere," said Sylvia, gravely pausing at her mother's cabin door,
"if I were Richard the Third, do you know what I should do with you?"

"No," says Frere, eating complacently; "what would you do?"

"Why, I'd make you stand at the door of St. Paul's Cathedral in a white sheet,
with a lighted candle in your hand, until you gave up your wicked
aggravating ways--you Man!"

The picture of Mr. Frere in a white sheet, with a lighted candle in his hand,
at the door of St. Paul's Cathedral, was too much for Mr. Bates's gravity,
and he roared with laughter.  "She's a queer child, ain't she, sir?
A born natural, and a good-natured little soul."

"When shall we be able to get away, Mr. Bates?" asked Frere,
whose dignity was wounded by the mirth of the pilot.

Bates felt the change of tone, and hastened to accommodate himself
to his officer's humour.  "I hopes by evening, sir," said he;
"if the tide slackens then I'll risk it; but it's no use trying it now."

"The men were wanting to go ashore to wash their clothes," said Frere.

"If we are to stop here till evening, you had better let them go after dinner."

"All right, sir," said Bates.

The afternoon passed off auspiciously.  The ten prisoners went ashore
and washed their clothes.  Their names were James Barker, James Lesly,
John Lyon, Benjamin Riley, William Cheshire, Henry Shiers, William Russen,
James Porter, John Fair, and John Rex.

This last scoundrel had come on board latest of all.  He had behaved himself
a little better recently, and during the work attendant upon the departure
of the Ladybird, had been conspicuously useful.  His intelligence
and influence among his fellow-prisoners combined to make him
a somewhat important personage, and Vickers had allowed him privileges
from which he had been hitherto debarred.  Mr. Frere, however,
who superintended the shipment of some stores, seemed to be resolved
to take advantage of Rex's evident willingness to work.  He never ceased
to hurry and find fault with him.  He vowed that he was lazy, sulky,
or impertinent.  It was "Rex, come here!  Do this!  Do that!"
As the prisoners declared among themselves, it was evident that Mr. Frere
had a "down" on the "Dandy".  The day before the Ladybird sailed,
Rex--rejoicing in the hope of speedy departure--had suffered himself
to reply to some more than usually galling remark and Mr. Frere
had complained to Vickers.  "The fellow's too ready to get away," said he.
"Let him stop for the Osprey, it will be a lesson to him."
Vickers assented, and John Rex was informed that he was not to sail
with the first party.  His comrades vowed that this order was an act
of tyranny; but he himself said nothing.  He only redoubled his activity,
and--despite all his wish to the contrary--Frere was unable to find fault.
He even took credit to himself for "taming" the convict's spirit,
and pointed out Rex--silent and obedient--as a proof of the excellence
of severe measures.  To the convicts, however, who knew John Rex better,
this silent activity was ominous.  He returned with the rest, however,
on the evening of the 13th, in apparently cheerful mood.  Indeed Mr. Frere,
who, wearied by the delay, had decided to take the whale-boat
in which the prisoners had returned, and catch a few fish before dinner,
observed him laughing with some of the others, and again congratulated himself.

The time wore on.  Darkness was closing in, and Mr. Bates, walking the deck,
kept a look-out for the boat, with the intention of weighing anchor
and making for the Bar.  All was secure.  Mrs. Vickers and the child
were safely below.  The two remaining soldiers (two had gone with Frere)
were upon deck, and the prisoners in the forecastle were singing.
The wind was fair, and the sea had gone down.  In less than an hour
the Osprey would be safely outside the harbour.  




CHAPTER VIII.

THE POWER OF THE WILDERNESS.



The drifting log that had so strangely served as a means of saving Rufus Dawes
swam with the current that was running out of the bay.  For some time
the burden that it bore was an insensible one.  Exhausted with his
desperate struggle for life, the convict lay along the rough back
of this Heaven-sent raft without motion, almost without breath.
At length a violent shock awoke him to consciousness, and he perceived
that the log had become stranded on a sandy point, the extremity of which
was lost in darkness.  Painfully raising himself from
his uncomfortable posture, he staggered to his feet, and crawling a few paces
up the beach, flung himself upon the ground and slept.

When morning dawned, he recognized his position.  The log had,
in passing under the lee of Philip's Island, been cast upon the southern point
of Coal Head; some three hundred yards from him were the mutilated sheds
of the coal gang.  For some time he lay still, basking in the warm rays
of the rising sun, and scarcely caring to move his bruised and shattered limbs.
The sensation of rest was so exquisite, that it overpowered
all other considerations, and he did not even trouble himself to conjecture
the reason for the apparent desertion of the huts close by him.
If there was no one there--well and good.  If the coal party had not gone,
he would be discovered in a few moments, and brought back to his island prison.
In his exhaustion and misery, he accepted the alternative and slept again.

As he laid down his aching head, Mr. Troke was reporting his death to Vickers,
and while he still slept, the Ladybird, on her way out, passed him so closely
that any one on board her might, with a good glass, have espied
his slumbering figure as it lay upon the sand.

When he woke it was past midday, and the sun poured its full rays upon him.
His clothes were dry in all places, save the side on which he had been lying,
and he rose to his feet refreshed by his long sleep.  He scarcely comprehended,
as yet, his true position.  He had escaped, it was true, but not for long.
He was versed in the history of escapes, and knew that a man alone
on that barren coast was face to face with starvation or recapture.
Glancing up at the sun, he wondered indeed, how it was that he had been free
so long.  Then the coal sheds caught his eye, and he understood
that they were untenanted.  This astonished him, and he began to tremble
with vague apprehension.  Entering, he looked around, expecting every moment
to see some lurking constable, or armed soldier.  Suddenly his glance
fell upon the food rations which lay in the corner where the departing convicts
had flung them the night before.  At such a moment, this discovery
seemed like a direct revelation from Heaven.  He would not have been surprised
had they disappeared.  Had he lived in another age, he would have looked round
for the angel who had brought them.

By and by, having eaten of this miraculous provender, the poor creature began
--reckoning by his convict experience--to understand what had taken place.
The coal workings were abandoned; the new Commandant had probably other work
for his beasts of burden to execute, and an absconder would be safe here
for a few hours at least.  But he must not stay.  For him there was no rest.
If he thought to escape, it behoved him to commence his journey at once.
As he contemplated the meat and bread, something like a ray of hope
entered his gloomy soul.  Here was provision for his needs.
The food before him represented the rations of six men.  Was it not possible
to cross the desert that lay between him and freedom on such fare?
The very supposition made his heart beat faster.  It surely was possible.
He must husband his resources; walk much and eat little; spread out the food
for one day into the food for three.  Here was six men's food for one day,
or one man's food for six days.  He would live on a third of this,
and he would have rations for eighteen days.  Eighteen days!
What could he not do in eighteen days?  He could walk thirty miles a day--
forty miles a day--that would be six hundred miles and more.
Yet stay; he must not be too sanguine; the road was difficult;
the scrub was in places impenetrable.  He would have to make detours,
and turn upon his tracks, to waste precious time.  He would be moderate,
and say twenty miles a day.  Twenty miles a day was very easy walking.
Taking a piece of stick from the ground, he made the calculation in the sand.
Eighteen days, and twenty miles a day--three hundred and sixty miles.
More than enough to take him to freedom.  It could be done!  With prudence,
it could be done!  He must be careful and abstemious!  Abstemious!
He had already eaten too much, and he hastily pulled a barely-tasted piece
of meat from his mouth, and replaced it with the rest.  The action
which at any other time would have seemed disgusting, was, in the case
of this poor creature, merely pitiable.

Having come to this resolution, the next thing was to disencumber himself
of his irons.  This was more easily done than he expected.  He found
in the shed an iron gad, and with that and a stone he drove out the rivets.
The rings were too strong to be "ovalled",* or he would have been free
long ago.  He packed the meat and bread together, and then pushing the gad
into his belt--it might be needed as a weapon of defence--he set out
on his journey.

[Footnote]* Ovalled--"To oval" is a term in use among convicts,
and means so to bend the round ring of the ankle fetter that the heel
can be drawn up through it.

His intention was to get round the settlement to the coast,
reach the settled districts, and, by some tale of shipwreck or of wandering,
procure assistance.  As to what was particularly to be done when he
found himself among free men, he did not pause to consider.
At that point his difficulties seemed to him to end.  Let him but traverse
the desert that was before him, and he would trust to his own ingenuity,
or the chance of fortune, to avert suspicion.  The peril of immediate detection
was so imminent that, beside it, all other fears were dwarfed
into insignificance.

Before dawn next morning he had travelled ten miles, and by husbanding
his food, he succeeded by the night of the fourth day in accomplishing
forty more.  Footsore and weary, he lay in a thicket of the thorny melaleuca,
and felt at last that he was beyond pursuit.  The next day he advanced
more slowly.  The bush was unpropitious.  Dense scrub and savage jungle
impeded his path; barren and stony mountain ranges arose before him.
He was lost in gullies, entangled in thickets, bewildered in morasses.
The sea that had hitherto gleamed, salt, glittering, and hungry
upon his right hand, now shifted to his left.  He had mistaken his course,
and he must turn again.  For two days did this bewilderment last,
and on the third he came to a mighty cliff that pierced with its blunt pinnacle
the clustering bush.  He must go over or round this obstacle,
and he decided to go round it.  A natural pathway wound about its foot.
Here and there branches were broken, and it seemed to the poor wretch,
fainting under the weight of his lessening burden, that his were not
the first footsteps which had trodden there.  The path terminated in a glade,
and at the bottom of this glade was something that fluttered.
Rufus Dawes pressed forward, and stumbled over a corpse!

In the terrible stillness of that solitary place he felt suddenly as though
a voice had called to him.  All the hideous fantastic tales of murder
which he had read or heard seemed to take visible shape in the person
of the loathly carcase before him, clad in the yellow dress of a convict,
and lying flung together on the ground as though struck down.
Stooping over it, impelled by an irresistible impulse to know the worst,
he found the body was mangled.  One arm was missing, and the skull
had been beaten in by some heavy instrument!  The first thought--that this heap
of rags and bones was a mute witness to the folly of his own undertaking,
the corpse of some starved absconder--gave place to a second
more horrible suspicion.  He recognized the number imprinted
on the coarse cloth as that which had designated the younger of the two men
who had escaped with Gabbett.  He was standing on the place where a murder
had been committed!  A murder!--and what else?  Thank God the food he carried
was not yet exhausted!  He turned and fled, looking back fearfully as he went.
He could not breathe in the shadow of that awful mountain.

Crashing through scrub and brake, torn, bleeding, and wild with terror,
he reached a spur on the range, and looked around him.  Above him rose
the iron hills, below him lay the panorama of the bush.  The white cone
of the Frenchman's Cap was on his right hand, on his left a succession
of ranges seemed to bar further progress.  A gleam, as of a lake,
streaked the eastward.  Gigantic pine trees reared their graceful heads
against the opal of the evening sky, and at their feet the dense scrub
through which he had so painfully toiled, spread without break
and without flaw.  It seemed as though he could leap from where he stood
upon a solid mass of tree-tops.  He raised his eyes, and right against him,
like a long dull sword, lay the narrow steel-blue reach of the harbour
from which he had escaped.  One darker speck moved on the dark water.
It was the Osprey making for the Gates.  It seemed that he could throw
a stone upon her deck.  A faint cry of rage escaped him.
During the last three days in the bush he must have retraced his steps,
and returned upon his own track to the settlement!  More than half
his allotted time had passed, and he was not yet thirty miles from his prison.
Death had waited to overtake him in this barbarous wilderness.
As a cat allows a mouse to escape her for a while, so had he been permitted
to trifle with his fate, and lull himself into a false security.
Escape was hopeless now.  He never could escape; and as the unhappy man
raised his despairing eyes, he saw that the sun, redly sinking
behind a lofty pine which topped the opposite hill, shot a ray of crimson light
into the glade below him.  It was as though a bloody finger pointed
at the corpse which lay there, and Rufus Dawes, shuddering at the dismal omen,
averting his face, plunged again into the forest.

For four days he wandered aimlessly through the bush.  He had given up
all hopes of making the overland journey, and yet, as long as
his scanty supply of food held out, he strove to keep away from the settlement.
Unable to resist the pangs of hunger, he had increased his daily ration;
and though the salted meat, exposed to rain and heat, had begun to turn putrid,
he never looked at it but he was seized with a desire to eat his fill.
The coarse lumps of carrion and the hard rye-loaves were to him
delicious morsels fit for the table of an emperor.  Once or twice
he was constrained to pluck and eat the tops of tea-trees
and peppermint shrubs.  These had an aromatic taste, and sufficed to stay
the cravings of hunger for a while, but they induced a raging thirst,
which he slaked at the icy mountain springs.  Had it not been
for the frequency of these streams, he must have died in a few days.
At last, on the twelfth day from his departure from the Coal Head,
he found himself at the foot of Mount Direction, at the head of the peninsula
which makes the western side of the harbour.  His terrible wandering
had but led him to make a complete circuit of the settlement,
and the next night brought him round the shores of Birches Inlet
to the landing-place opposite to Sarah Island.  His stock of provisions
had been exhausted for two days, and he was savage with hunger.
He no longer thought of suicide.  His dominant idea was now to get food.
He would do as many others had done before him--give himself up
to be flogged and fed.  When he reached the landing-place, however,
the guard-house was empty.  He looked across at the island prison,
and saw no sign of life.  The settlement was deserted!  The shock
of this discovery almost deprived him of reason.  For days,
that had seemed centuries, he had kept life in his jaded and lacerated body
solely by the strength of his fierce determination to reach the settlement;
and now that he had reached it, after a journey of unparalleled horror,
he found it deserted.  He struck himself to see if he was not dreaming.
He refused to believe his eyesight.  He shouted, screamed, and waved
his tattered garments in the air.  Exhausted by these paroxysms,
he said to himself, quite calmly, that the sun beating on his unprotected head
had dazed his brain, and that in a few minutes he should see
well-remembered boats pulling towards him.  Then, when no boat came,
he argued that he was mistaken in the place; the island yonder
was not Sarah Island, but some other island like it, and that in a second or so
he would be able to detect the difference.  But the inexorable mountains,
so hideously familiar for six weary years, made mute reply, and the sea,
crawling at his feet, seemed to grin at him with a thin-lipped, hungry mouth.
Yet the fact of the desertion seemed so inexplicable that he could not
realize it.  He felt as might have felt that wanderer in
the enchanted mountains, who, returning in the morning to look
for his companions, found them turned to stone.

At last the dreadful truth forced itself upon him; he retired a few paces,
and then, with a horrible cry of furious despair, stumbled forward
towards the edge of the little reef that fringed the shore.
Just as he was about to fling himself for the second time into the dark water,
his eyes, sweeping in a last long look around the bay, caught sight
of a strange appearance on the left horn of the sea beach.
A thin, blue streak, uprising from behind the western arm of the little inlet,
hung in the still air.  It was the smoke of a fire!

The dying wretch felt inspired with new hope.  God had sent him a direct sign
from Heaven.  The tiny column of bluish vapour seemed to him as glorious
as the Pillar of Fire that led the Israelites.  There were yet human beings
near him!--and turning his face from the hungry sea, he tottered
with the last effort of his failing strength towards the blessed token
of their presence.




CHAPTER IX.

THE SEIZURE OF THE "OSPREY"



Frere's fishing expedition had been unsuccessful, and in consequence prolonged.
The obstinacy of his character appeared in the most trifling circumstances,
and though the fast deepening shades of an Australian evening urged him
to return, yet he lingered, unwilling to come back empty-handed.
At last a peremptory signal warned him.  It was the sound of a musket
fired on board the brig:  Mr. Bates was getting impatient; and with a scowl,
Frere drew up his lines, and ordered the two soldiers to pull for the vessel.

The Osprey yet sat motionless on the water, and her bare masts gave no sign
of making sail.  To the soldiers, pulling with their backs to her,
the musket shot seemed the most ordinary occurrence in the world.
Eager to quit the dismal prison-bay, they had viewed Mr Frere's persistent
fishing with disgust, and had for the previous half hour longed to hear
the signal of recall which had just startled them.  Suddenly, however,
they noticed a change of expression in the sullen face of their commander.
Frere, sitting in the stern sheets, with his face to the Osprey,
had observed a peculiar appearance on her decks.  The bulwarks were
every now and then topped by strange figures, who disappeared as suddenly
as they came, and a faint murmur of voices floated across the intervening sea.
Presently the report of another musket shot echoed among the hills,
and something dark fell from the side of the vessel into the water.
Frere, with an imprecation of mingled alarm and indignation,
sprang to his feet, and shading his eyes with his hand,
looked towards the brig.  The soldiers, resting on their oars,
imitated his gesture, and the whale-boat, thus thrown out of trim,
rocked from side to side dangerously.  A moment's anxious pause,
and then another musket shot, followed by a woman's shrill scream,
explained all.  The prisoners had seized the brig.  "Give way!" cried Frere,
pale with rage and apprehension, and the soldiers, realizing at once
the full terror of their position, forced the heavy whale-boat
through the water as fast as the one miserable pair of oars could take her.


          *          *          *          *          *          *


Mr. Bates, affected by the insidious influence of the hour,
and lulled into a sense of false security, had gone below to tell
his little playmate that she would soon be on her way to the Hobart Town
of which she had heard so much; and, taking advantage of his absence,
the soldier not on guard went to the forecastle to hear the prisoners singing.
He found the ten together, in high good humour, listening to a "shanty"
sung by three of their number.  The voices were melodious enough,
and the words of the ditty--chanted by many stout fellows in many a forecastle
before and since--of that character which pleases the soldier nature.
Private Grimes forgot all about the unprotected state of the deck,
and sat down to listen.

While he listened, absorbed in tender recollections, James Lesly,
William Cheshire, William Russen, John Fair, and James Barker
slipped to the hatchway and got upon the deck.  Barker reached the aft hatchway
as the soldier who was on guard turned to complete his walk,
and passing his arm round his neck, pulled him down before he could
utter a cry.  In the confusion of the moment the man loosed his grip
of the musket to grapple with his unseen antagonist, and Fair,
snatching up the weapon, swore to blow out his brains if he raised a finger.
Seeing the sentry thus secured, Cheshire, as if in pursuance of
a preconcerted plan, leapt down the after hatchway, and passed up the muskets
from the arm-racks to Lesly and Russen.  There were three muskets
in addition to the one taken from the sentry, and Barker, leaving his prisoner
in charge of Fair, seized one of them, and ran to the companion ladder.
Russen, left unarmed by this manoeuvre, appeared to know his own duty.
He came back to the forecastle, and passing behind the listening soldier,
touched the singer on the shoulder.  This was the appointed signal,
and John Rex, suddenly terminating his song with a laugh, presented his fist
in the face of the gaping Grimes.  "No noise!" he cried.  "The brig's ours";
and ere Grimes could reply, he was seized by Lyon and Riley,
and bound securely.

"Come on, lads!" says Rex, "and pass the prisoner down here.
We've got her this time, I'll go bail!" In obedience to this order,
the now gagged sentry was flung down the fore hatchway, and the hatch secured.
"Stand on the hatchway, Porter," cries Rex again; "and if those fellows
come up, knock 'em down with a handspoke.  Lesly and Russen,
forward to the companion ladder!  Lyon, keep a look-out for the boat,
and if she comes too near, fire!"

As he spoke the report of the first musket rang out.  Barker had apparently
fired up the companion hatchway.  


          *          *          *          *          *          *


When Mr. Bates had gone below, he found Sylvia curled upon the cushions
of the state-room, reading.  "Well, missy!" he said, "we'll soon be
on our way to papa."

Sylvia answered by asking a question altogether foreign to the subject.
"Mr. Bates," said she, pushing the hair out of her blue eyes,
"what's a coracle?"

"A which?" asked Mr. Bates.

"A coracle.  C-o-r-a-c-l-e," said she, spelling it slowly.  "I want to know."

The bewildered Bates shook his head.  "Never heard of one, missy," said he,
bending over the book.  "What does it say?"

"'The Ancient Britons,'" said Sylvia, reading gravely, "'were little better
than Barbarians.  They painted their bodies with Woad'--that's blue stuff,
you know, Mr. Bates--'and, seated in their light coracles of skin
stretched upon slender wooden frames, must have presented a wild
and savage appearance.'"

"Hah," said Mr. Bates, when this remarkable passage was read to him,
"that's very mysterious, that is.  A corricle, a cory "--a bright light
burst upon him.  "A curricle you mean, missy!  It's a carriage!
I've seen 'em in Hy' Park, with young bloods a-drivin' of 'em."

"What are young bloods?" asked Sylvia, rushing at this "new opening".

"Oh, nobs!  Swell coves, don't you know," returned poor Bates,
thus again attacked.  "Young men o' fortune that is, that's given
to doing it grand."

"I see," said Sylvia, waving her little hand graciously.  "Noblemen and Princes
and that sort of people.  Quite so.  But what about coracle?"

"Well," said the humbled Bates, "I think it's a carriage, missy.
A sort of Pheayton, as they call it."

Sylvia, hardly satisfied, returned to the book.  It was a little
mean-looking volume--a "Child's History of England"--and after perusing it
awhile with knitted brows, she burst into a childish laugh.

"Why, my dear Mr. Bates!" she cried, waving the History above her head
in triumph, "what a pair of geese we are!  A carriage!  Oh you silly man!
It's a boat!"

"Is it?" said Mr. Bates, in admiration of the intelligence of his companion.
"Who'd ha' thought that now?  Why couldn't they call it a boat at once,
then, and ha' done with it?" and he was about to laugh also,
when, raising his eyes, he saw in the open doorway the figure of James Barker,
with a musket in his hand.

"Hallo!  What's this?  What do you do here, sir?"

"Sorry to disturb yer," says the convict, with a grin, "but you must
come along o' me, Mr. Bates."

Bates, at once comprehending that some terrible misfortune had occurred,
did not lose his presence of mind.  One of the cushions of the couch
was under his right hand, and snatching it up he flung it across
the little cabin full in the face of the escaped prisoner.
The soft mass struck the man with force sufficient to blind him for an instant.
The musket exploded harmlessly in the air, and ere the astonished Barker
could recover his footing, Bates had hurled him out of the cabin,
and crying "Mutiny!" locked the cabin door on the inside.

The noise brought out Mrs. Vickers from her berth, and the poor little student
of English history ran into her arms.

"Good Heavens, Mr. Bates, what is it?"

Bates, furious with rage, so far forgot himself as to swear.
"It's a mutiny, ma'am," said he.  "Go back to your cabin and lock the door.
Those bloody villains have risen on us!" Julia Vickers felt
her heart grow sick.  Was she never to escape out of this dreadful life?
"Go into your cabin, ma'am," says Bates again, "and don't move a finger till
I tell ye.  Maybe it ain't so bad as it looks; I've got my pistols with me,
thank God, and Mr. Frere'll hear the shot anyway.  Mutiny?  On deck there!"
he cried at the full pitch of his voice, and his brow grew damp with dismay
when a mocking laugh from above was the only response.

Thrusting the woman and child into the state berth, the bewildered pilot
cocked a pistol, and snatching a cutlass from the arm stand fixed to the butt
of the mast which penetrated the cabin, he burst open the door with his foot,
and rushed to the companion ladder.  Barker had retreated to the deck,
and for an instant he thought the way was clear, but Lesly and Russen
thrust him back with the muzzles of the loaded muskets.  He struck
at Russen with the cutlass, missed him, and, seeing the hopelessness
of the attack, was fain to retreat.

In the meanwhile, Grimes and the other soldier had loosed themselves
from their bonds, and, encouraged by the firing, which seemed to them
a sign that all was not yet lost, made shift to force up the forehatch.
Porter, whose courage was none of the fiercest, and who had been for years
given over to that terror of discipline which servitude induces,
made but a feeble attempt at resistance, and forcing the handspike from him,
the sentry, Jones, rushed aft to help the pilot.  As Jones reached the waist,
Cheshire, a cold-blooded blue-eyed man, shot him dead.
Grimes fell over the corpse, and Cheshire, clubbing the musket--
had he another barrel he would have fired--coolly battered his head as he lay,
and then, seizing the body of the unfortunate Jones in his arms,
tossed it into the sea.  "Porter, you lubber!" he cried,
exhausted with the effort to lift the body, "come and bear a hand
with this other one!" Porter advanced aghast, but just then another occurrence
claimed the villain's attention, and poor Grimes's life was spared
for that time.

Rex, inwardly raging at this unexpected resistance on the part of the pilot,
flung himself on the skylight, and tore it up bodily.  As he did so, Barker,
who had reloaded his musket, fired down into the cabin.
The ball passed through the state-room door, and splintering the wood,
buried itself close to the golden curls of poor little Sylvia.
It was this hair's-breadth escape which drew from the agonized mother
that shriek which, pealing through the open stern window,
had roused the soldiers in the boat.

Rex, who, by the virtue of his dandyism, yet possessed some abhorrence
of useless crime, imagined that the cry was one of pain, and that
Barker's bullet had taken deadly effect.  "You've killed the child,
you villain!" he cried.

"What's the odds?" asked Barker sulkily.  "She must die any way,
sooner or later."

Rex put his head down the skylight, and called on Bates to surrender,
but Bates only drew his other pistol.  "Would you commit murder?"
he asked, looking round with desperation in his glance.

"No, no," cried some of the men, willing to blink the death of poor Jones.
"It's no use making things worse than they are.  Bid him come up,
and we'll do him no harm." "Come up, Mr. Bates," says Rex,
"and I give you my word you sha'n't be injured."

"Will you set the major's lady and child ashore, then?" asked Bates,
sturdily facing the scowling brows above him.

"Yes."

"Without injury?" continued the other, bargaining, as it were,
at the very muzzles of the muskets.

"Ay, ay!  It's all right!" returned Russen.  "It's our liberty we want,
that's all."

Bates, hoping against hope for the return of the boat,
endeavoured to gain time.  "Shut down the skylight, then," said he,
with the ghost of an authority in his voice, "until I ask the lady."

This, however, John Rex refused to do.  "You can ask well enough
where you are," he said.

But there was no need for Mr. Bates to put a question.
The door of the state-room opened, and Mrs. Vickers appeared,
trembling, with Sylvia by her side.  "Accept, Mr. Bates," she said,
"since it must be so.  We should gain nothing by refusing.
We are at their mercy--God help us!"

"Amen to that," says Bates under his breath, and then aloud, "We agree !"

"Put your pistols on the table, and come up, then," says Rex,
covering the table with his musket as he spoke.  "And nobody shall hurt you." 




CHAPTER X.

JOHN REX'S REVENGE.



Mrs Vickers, pale and sick with terror, yet sustained by that strange courage
of which we have before spoken, passed rapidly under the open skylight,
and prepared to ascend.  Sylvia--her romance crushed by too dreadful reality--
clung to her mother with one hand, and with the other pressed close
to her little bosom the "English History".  In her all-absorbing fear
she had forgotten to lay it down.

"Get a shawl, ma'am, or something," says Bates, "and a hat for missy."

Mrs. Vickers looked back across the space beneath the open skylight,
and shuddering, shook her head.  The men above swore impatiently
at the delay, and the three hastened on deck.

"Who's to command the brig now?" asked undaunted Bates, as they came up.

"I am," says John Rex, "and, with these brave fellows,
I'll take her round the world."

The touch of bombast was not out of place.  It jumped so far with the humour
of the convicts that they set up a feeble cheer, at which Sylvia frowned.
Frightened as she was, the prison-bred child was as much astonished
at hearing convicts cheer as a fashionable lady would be to hear
her footman quote poetry.  Bates, however--practical and calm--
took quite another view of the case.  The bold project, so boldly avowed,
seemed to him a sheer absurdity.  The "Dandy" and a crew of nine convicts
navigate a brig round the world!  Preposterous; why, not a man aboard
could work a reckoning!  His nautical fancy pictured the Osprey
helplessly rolling on the swell of the Southern Ocean, or hopelessly locked
in the ice of the Antarctic Seas, and he dimly guessed at the fate
of the deluded ten.  Even if they got safe to port, the chances of final escape
were all against them, for what account could they give of themselves?
Overpowered by these reflections, the honest fellow made one last effort
to charm his captors back to their pristine bondage.

"Fools!" he cried, "do you know what you are about to do?
You will never escape.  Give up the brig, and I will declare, before my God,
upon the Bible, that I will say nothing, but give all good characters."

Lesly and another burst into a laugh at this wild proposition, but Rex,
who had weighed his chances well beforehand, felt the force
of the pilot's speech, and answered seriously.

"It's no use talking," he said, shaking his still handsome head.
"We have got the brig, and we mean to keep her.  I can navigate her,
though I am no seaman, so you needn't talk further about it, Mr. Bates.
It's liberty we require."

"What are you going to do with us?" asked Bates.

"Leave you behind."

Bates's face blanched.  "What, here?"

"Yes.  It don't look a picturesque spot, does it?  And yet I've lived here
for some years"; and he grinned.

Bates was silent.  The logic of that grin was unanswerable.

"Come!" cried the Dandy, shaking off his momentary melancholy,
"look alive there!  Lower away the jolly-boat.  Mrs. Vickers, go down
to your cabin and get anything you want.  I am compelled to put you ashore,
but I have no wish to leave you without clothes." Bates listened,
in a sort of dismal admiration, at this courtly convict.
He could not have spoken like that had life depended on it.
"Now, my little lady," continued Rex, "run down with your mamma,
and don't be frightened."

Sylvia flashed burning red at this indignity.  "Frightened!
If there had been anybody else here but women, you never would have
taken the brig.  Frightened!  Let me pass, prisoner!"

The whole deck burst into a great laugh at this, and poor Mrs. Vickers paused,
trembling for the consequences of the child's temerity.  To thus taunt
the desperate convict who held their lives in his hands seemed sheer madness.
In the boldness of the speech however, lay its safeguard.
Rex--whose politeness was mere bravado--was stung to the quick
by the reflection upon his courage, and the bitter accent with which the child
had pronounced the word prisoner (the generic name of convicts)
made him bite his lips with rage.  Had he had his will, he would have struck
the little creature to the deck, but the hoarse laugh of his companions
warned him to forbear.  There is "public opinion" even among convicts,
and Rex dared not vent his passion on so helpless an object.
As men do in such cases, he veiled his anger beneath an affectation
of amusement.  In order to show that he was not moved by the taunt,
he smiled upon the taunter more graciously than ever.

"Your daughter has her father's spirit, madam," said he to Mrs. Vickers,
with a bow.

Bates opened his mouth to listen.  His ears were not large enough
to take in the words of this complimentary convict.  He began to think
that he was the victim of a nightmare.  He absolutely felt that John Rex
was a greater man at that moment than John Bates.

As Mrs. Vickers descended the hatchway, the boat with Frere and the soldiers
came within musket range, and Lesly, according to orders,
fired his musket over their heads, shouting to them to lay to But Frere,
boiling with rage at the manner in which the tables had been turned on him,
had determined not to resign his lost authority without a struggle.
Disregarding the summons, he came straight on, with his eyes fixed
on the vessel.  It was now nearly dark, and the figures on the deck
were indistinguishable.  The indignant lieutenant could but guess
at the condition of affairs.  Suddenly, from out of the darkness
a voice hailed him--

"Hold water!  back water!" it cried, and was then seemingly choked
in its owner's throat.

The voice was the property of Mr. Bates.  Standing near the side,
he had observed Rex and Fair bring up a great pig of iron, erst used
as part of the ballast of the brig, and poise it on the rail.
Their intention was but too evident; and honest Bates,
like a faithful watch-dog, barked to warn his master.  Bloodthirsty Cheshire
caught him by the throat, and Frere, unheeding, ran the boat alongside,
under the very nose of the revengeful Rex.

The mass of iron fell half in-board upon the now stayed boat,
and gave her sternway, with a splintered plank.

"Villains!" cried Frere, "would you swamp us?"

"Aye," laughed Rex, "and a dozen such as ye!  The brig's ours, can't ye see,
and we're your masters now!"

Frere, stifling an exclamation of rage, cried to the bow to hook on,
but the bow had driven the boat backward, and she was already
beyond arm's length of the brig.  Looking up, he saw Cheshire's savage face,
and heard the click of the lock as he cocked his piece.  The two soldiers,
exhausted by their long pull, made no effort to stay the progress of the boat,
and almost before the swell caused by the plunge of the mass of iron
had ceased to agitate the water, the deck of the Osprey had become invisible
in the darkness.

Frere struck his fist upon the thwart in sheer impotence of rage.
"The scoundrels!" he said, between his teeth, "they've mastered us.
What do they mean to do next?"

The answer came pat to the question.  From the dark hull of the brig
broke a flash and a report, and a musket ball cut the water beside them
with a chirping noise.  Between the black indistinct mass which represented
the brig, and the glimmering water, was visible a white speck,
which gradually neared them.

"Come alongside with ye!" hailed a voice, "or it will be the worse for ye!"

"They want to murder us," says Frere.  "Give way, men!"

But the two soldiers, exchanging glances one with the other,
pulled the boat's head round, and made for the vessel.  "It's no use,
Mr. Frere," said the man nearest him; "we can do no good now,
and they won't hurt us, I dare say."

"You dogs, you are in league with them," bursts out Frere,
purple with indignation.  "Do you mutiny?"

"Come, come, sir," returned the soldier, sulkily, "this ain't the time to
bully; and, as for mutiny, why, one man's about as good as another just now."

This speech from the lips of a man who, but a few minutes before,
would have risked his life to obey orders of his officer,
did more than an hour's reasoning to convince Maurice Frere of the hopelessness
of resistance.  His authority--born of circumstance, and supported
by adventitious aid--had left him.  The musket shot had reduced him
to the ranks.  He was now no more than anyone else; indeed, he was less
than many, for those who held the firearms were the ruling powers.
With a groan he resigned himself to his fate, and looking at the sleeve
of the undress uniform he wore, it seemed to him that virtue had gone
out of it.  When they reached the brig, they found that the jolly-boat
had been lowered and laid alongside.  In her were eleven persons;
Bates with forehead gashed, and hands bound, the stunned Grimes,
Russen and Fair pulling, Lyon, Riley, Cheshire, and Lesly with muskets,
and John Rex in the stern sheets, with Bates's pistols in his trousers' belt,
and a loaded musket across his knees.  The white object which had been seen
by the men in the whale-boat was a large white shawl
which wrapped Mrs. Vickers and Sylvia.

Frere muttered an oath of relief when he saw this white bundle.
He had feared that the child was injured.  By the direction of Rex
the whale-boat was brought alongside the jolly-boat, and Cheshire and Lesly
boarded her.  Lesly then gave his musket to Rex, and bound Frere's hands
behind him, in the same manner as had been done for Bates.
Frere attempted to resist this indignity, but Cheshire, clapping his musket
to his ear, swore he would blow out his brains if he uttered another syllable;
Frere, catching the malignant eye of John Rex, remembered how easily
a twitch of the finger would pay off old scores, and was silent.
"Step in here, sir, if you please," said Rex, with polite irony.
"I am sorry to be compelled to tie you, but I must consult my own safety
as well as your convenience." Frere scowled, and, stepping awkwardly
into the jolly-boat, fell.  Pinioned as he was, he could not rise
without assistance, and Russen pulled him roughly to his feet
with a coarse laugh.  In his present frame of mind, that laugh galled him
worse than his bonds.

Poor Mrs. Vickers, with a woman's quick instinct, saw this, and,
even amid her own trouble, found leisure to console him.  "The wretches!"
she said, under her breath, as Frere was flung down beside her,
"to subject you to such indignity!" Sylvia said nothing,
and seemed to shrink from the lieutenant.  Perhaps in her childish fancy
she had pictured him as coming to her rescue, armed cap-a-pie,
and clad in dazzling mail, or, at the very least, as a muscular hero,
who would settle affairs out of hand by sheer personal prowess.
If she had entertained any such notion, the reality must have struck coldly
upon her senses.  Mr. Frere, purple, clumsy, and bound, was not at all heroic.

"Now, my lads," says Rex--who seemed to have endured the cast-off authority
of Frere--"we give you your choice.  Stay at Hell's Gates, or come with us!"

The soldiers paused, irresolute.  To join the mutineers meant
a certainty of hard work, with a chance of ultimate hanging.
Yet to stay with the prisoners was--as far as they could see--
to incur the inevitable fate of starvation on a barren coast.
As is often the case on such occasions, a trifle sufficed to turn the scale.
The wounded Grimes, who was slowly recovering from his stupor,
dimly caught the meaning of the sentence, and in his obfuscated condition
of intellect must needs make comment upon it.  "Go with him, ye beggars!;"
said he, "and leave us honest men!  Oh, ye'll get a tying-up for this."

The phrase "tying-up" brought with it recollection of the worst portion
of military discipline, the cat, and revived in the minds of the pair
already disposed to break the yoke that sat so heavily upon them,
a train of dismal memories.  The life of a soldier on a convict station
was at that time a hard one.  He was often stinted in rations,
and of necessity deprived of all rational recreation, while punishment
for offences was prompt and severe.  The companies drafted
to the penal settlements were not composed of the best material,
and the pair had good precedent for the course they were about to take.

"Come," says Rex, "I can't wait here all night.  The wind is freshening,
and we must make the Bar.  Which is it to be?"

"We'll go with you!" says the man who had pulled the stroke in the whale-boat,
spitting into the water with averted face.  Upon which utterance
the convicts burst into joyous oaths, and the pair were received
with much hand-shaking.

Then Rex, with Lyon and Riley as a guard, got into the whale boat,
and having loosed the two prisoners from their bonds, ordered them
to take the place of Russen and Fair.  The whale-boat was manned
by the seven mutineers, Rex steering, Fair, Russen, and the two recruits
pulling, and the other four standing up, with their muskets levelled
at the jolly-boat.  Their long slavery had begotten such a dread of authority
in these men that they feared it even when it was bound and menaced
by four muskets.  "Keep your distance!" shouted Cheshire,
as Frere and Bates, in obedience to orders, began to pull the jolly-boat
towards the shore; and in this fashion was the dismal little party
conveyed to the mainland.

It was night when they reached it, but the clear sky began to thrill
with a late moon as yet unrisen, and the waves, breaking gently upon the beach,
glimmered with a radiance born of their own motion.  Frere and Bates,
jumping ashore, helped out Mrs. Vickers, Sylvia, and the wounded Grimes.
This being done under the muzzles of the muskets, Rex commanded
that Bates and Frere should push the jolly-boat as far as they could
from the shore, and Riley catching her by a boat-hook as she came towards them,
she was taken in tow.

"Now, boys," says Cheshire, with a savage delight, "three cheers
for old England and Liberty!"

Upon which a great shout went up, echoed by the grim hills
which had witnessed so many miseries.

To the wretched five, this exultant mirth sounded like a knell of death.
"Great God!" cried Bates, running up to his knees in water
after the departing boats, "would you leave us here to starve?"

The only answer was the jerk and dip of the retreating oars.




CHAPTER XI.

LEFT AT "HELL'S GATES."



There is no need to dwell upon the mental agonies of that miserable night.
Perhaps, of all the five, the one least qualified to endure it
realized the prospect of suffering most acutely.  Mrs. Vickers--
lay-figure and noodle as she was--had the keen instinct of approaching danger,
which is in her sex a sixth sense.  She was a woman and a mother,
and owned a double capacity for suffering.  Her feminine imagination
pictured all the horrors of death by famine, and having realized
her own torments, her maternal love forced her to live them over again
in the person of her child.  Rejecting Bates's offer of a pea-jacket
and Frere's vague tenders of assistance, the poor woman withdrew
behind a rock that faced the sea, and, with her daughter in her arms,
resigned herself to her torturing thoughts.  Sylvia, recovered from her terror,
was almost content, and, curled in her mother's shawl, slept.
To her little soul this midnight mystery of boats and muskets
had all the flavour of a romance.  With Bates, Frere, and her mother
so close to her, it was impossible to be afraid; besides, it was obvious
that papa--the Supreme Being of the settlement--must at once return
and severely punish the impertinent prisoners who had dared to insult
his wife and child, and as Sylvia dropped off to sleep, she caught herself,
with some indignation, pitying the mutineers for the tremendous scrape
they had got themselves into.  How they would be flogged when papa came back!
In the meantime this sleeping in the open air was novel and rather pleasant.

Honest Bates produced a piece of biscuit, and, with all the generosity
of his nature, suggested that this should be set aside for the sole use
of the two females, but Mrs. Vickers would not hear of it.
"We must all share alike," said she, with something of the spirit
that she knew her husband would have displayed under like circumstance;
and Frere wondered at her apparent strength of mind.  Had he been gifted
with more acuteness, he would not have wondered; for when a crisis comes
to one of two persons who have lived much together, the influence
of the nobler spirit makes itself felt.  Frere had a tinder-box in his pocket,
and he made a fire with some dry leaves and sticks.  Grimes fell asleep,
and the two men sitting at their fire discussed the chances of escape.
Neither liked to openly broach the supposition that they had been
finally deserted.  It was concluded between them that unless the brig sailed
in the night--and the now risen moon showed her yet lying at anchor--
the convicts would return and bring them food.  This supposition
proved correct, for about an hour after daylight they saw the whale-boat
pulling towards them.

A discussion had arisen amongst the mutineers as to the propriety
of at once making sail, but Barker, who had been one of the pilot-boat crew,
and knew the dangers of the Bar, vowed that he would not undertake
to steer the brig through the Gates until morning; and so the boats
being secured astern, a strict watch was set, lest the helpless Bates
should attempt to rescue the vessel.  During the evening--the excitement
attendant upon the outbreak having passed away, and the magnitude
of the task before them being more fully apparent to their minds--a feeling
of pity for the unfortunate party on the mainland took possession of them.
It was quite possible that the Osprey might be recaptured,
in which case five useless murders would have been committed;
and however callous in bloodshed were the majority of the ten,
not one among them could contemplate in cold blood, without a twinge
of remorse, the death of the harmless child of the Commandant.

John Rex, seeing how matters were going, made haste to take to himself
the credit of mercy.  He ruled, and had always ruled, his ruffians
not so much by suggesting to them the course they should take,
as by leading them on the way they had already chosen for themselves.
"I propose," said he, "that we divide the provisions.  There are five of them
and twelve of us.  Then nobody can blame us."

"Ay," said Porter, mindful of a similar exploit, "and if we're taken,
they can tell what we have done.  Don't let our affair be like that
of the Cypress, to leave them to starve." "Ay, ay," says Barker,
"you're right!  When Fergusson was topped at Hobart Town, I heard old Troke
say that if he'd not refused to set the tucker ashore,
he might ha' got off with a whole skin."

Thus urged, by self-interest, as well as sentiment, to mercy,
the provision was got upon deck by daylight, and a division was made.
The soldiers, with generosity born of remorse, were for giving half
to the marooned men, but Barker exclaimed against this.  "When the schooner
finds they don't get to headquarters, she's bound to come back
and look for 'em," said he; "and we'll want all the tucker we can get,
maybe, afore we sights land."

This reasoning was admitted and acted upon.  There was in the harness-cask
about fifty pounds of salt meat, and a third of this quantity,
together with half a small sack of flour, some tea and sugar mixed together
in a bag, and an iron kettle and pannikin, was placed in the whale-boat.
Rex, fearful of excesses among his crew, had also lowered down
one of the two small puncheons of rum which the store-room contained.
Cheshire disputed this, and stumbling over a goat that had been taken on board
from Philip's Island, caught the creature by the leg, and threw it
into the sea, bidding Rex take that with him also.  Rex dragged the poor beast
into the boat, and with this miscellaneous cargo pushed off to the shore.
The poor goat, shivering, began to bleat piteously, and the men laughed.
To a stranger it would have appeared that the boat contained a happy party
of fishermen, or coast settlers, returning with the proceeds
of a day's marketing.

Laying off as the water shallowed, Rex called to Bates to come for the cargo,
and three men with muskets standing up as before, ready to resist
any attempt at capture, the provisions, goat and all, were carried ashore.
"There!" says Rex, "you can't say we've used you badly, for we've divided
the provisions."  The sight of this almost unexpected succour
revived the courage of the five, and they felt grateful.
After the horrible anxiety they had endured all that night, they were prepared
to look with kindly eyes upon the men who had come to their assistance.

"Men," said Bates, with something like a sob in his voice,
"I didn't expect this.  You are good fellows, for there ain't much
tucker aboard, I know."

"Yes," affirmed Frere, "you're good fellows."

Rex burst into a savage laugh.  "Shut your mouth, you tyrant," said he,
forgetting his dandyism in the recollection of his former suffering.
"It ain't for your benefit.  You may thank the lady and the child for it."

Julia Vickers hastened to propitiate the arbiter of her daughter's fate.
"We are obliged to you," she said, with a touch of quiet dignity
resembling her husband's; "and if I ever get back safely, I will take care
that your kindness shall be known."

The swindler and forger took off his leather cap with quite an air.
It was five years since a lady had spoken to him, and the old time
when he was Mr. Lionel Crofton, a "gentleman sportsman", came back again
for an instant.  At that moment, with liberty in his hand, and fortune
all before him, he felt his self-respect return, and he looked the lady
in the face without flinching.

"I sincerely trust, madam," said he, "that you will get back safely.
May I hope for your good wishes for myself and my companions?"

Listening, Bates burst into a roar of astonished enthusiasm.
"What a dog it is!" he cried.  "John Rex, John Rex, you were never made
to be a convict, man!"

Rex smiled.  "Good-bye, Mr. Bates, and God preserve you!"

"Good-bye," says Bates, rubbing his hat off his face, "and I--I--damme,
I hope you'll get safe off--there!  for liberty's sweet to every man."

"Good-bye, prisoners!" says Sylvia, waving her handkerchief;
"and I hope they won't catch you, too."

So, with cheers and waving of handkerchiefs, the boat departed.

In the emotion which the apparently disinterested conduct of John Rex
had occasioned the exiles, all earnest thought of their own position
had vanished, and, strange to say, the prevailing feeling was that of anxiety
for the ultimate fate of the mutineers.  But as the boat grew smaller
and smaller in the distance, so did their consciousness of their own situation
grow more and more distinct; and when at last the boat had disappeared
in the shadow of the brig, all started, as if from a dream,
to the wakeful contemplation of their own case.

A council of war was held, with Mr. Frere at the head of it,
and the possessions of the little party were thrown into common stock.
The salt meat, flour, and tea were placed in a hollow rock at some distance
from the beach, and Mr. Bates was appointed purser, to apportion to each,
without fear or favour, his stated allowance.  The goat was tethered
with a piece of fishing line sufficiently long to allow her to browse.
The cask of rum, by special agreement, was placed in the innermost recess
of the rock, and it was resolved that its contents should not be touched
except in case of sickness, or in last extremity.  There was no lack of water,
for a spring ran bubbling from the rocks within a hundred yards of the spot
where the party had landed.  They calculated that, with prudence,
their provisions would last them for nearly four weeks.

It was found, upon a review of their possessions, that they had among them
three pocket knives, a ball of string, two pipes, matches and a fig of tobacco,
fishing lines with hooks, and a big jack-knife which Frere had taken
to gut the fish he had expected to catch.  But they saw with dismay
that there was nothing which could be used axe-wise among the party.
Mrs. Vickers had her shawl, and Bates a pea-jacket, but Frere and Grimes
were without extra clothing.  It was agreed that each should retain
his own property, with the exception of the fishing lines,
which were confiscated to the commonwealth.

Having made these arrangements, the kettle, filled with water from the spring,
was slung from three green sticks over the fire, and a pannikin of weak tea,
together with a biscuit, served out to each of the party, save Grimes,
who declared himself unable to eat.  Breakfast over, Bates made a damper,
which was cooked in the ashes, and then another council was held
as to future habitation.

It was clearly evident that they could not sleep in the open air.
It was the middle of summer, and though no annoyance from rain was apprehended,
the heat in the middle of the day was most oppressive.  Moreover,
it was absolutely necessary that Mrs. Vickers and the child should have
some place to themselves.  At a little distance from the beach
was a sandy rise, that led up to the face of the cliff, and on the eastern side
of this rise grew a forest of young trees.  Frere proposed to cut down
these trees, and make a sort of hut with them.  It was soon discovered,
however, that the pocket knives were insufficient for this purpose,
but by dint of notching the young saplings and then breaking them down,
they succeeded, in a couple of hours, in collecting wood enough
to roof over a space between the hollow rock which contained the provisions
and another rock, in shape like a hammer, which jutted out
within five yards of it.  Mrs. Vickers and Sylvia were to have this hut
as a sleeping-place, and Frere and Bates, lying at the mouth of the larder,
would at once act as a guard to it and them.  Grimes was to make for himself
another hut where the fire had been lighted on the previous night.

When they got back to dinner, inspirited by this resolution,
they found poor Mrs. Vickers in great alarm.  Grimes, who,
by reason of the dint in his skull, had been left behind, was walking about
the sea-beach, talking mysteriously, and shaking his fist at an imaginary foe.
On going up to him, they discovered that the blow had affected his brain,
for he was delirious.  Frere endeavoured to soothe him, without effect;
and at last, by Bates's advice, the poor fellow was rolled in the sea.
The cold bath quelled his violence, and, being laid beneath the shade
of a rock hard by, he fell into a condition of great muscular exhaustion,
and slept.

The damper was then portioned out by Bates, and, together with a small piece
of meat, it formed the dinner of the party.  Mrs. Vickers reported
that she had observed a great commotion on board the brig,
and thought that the prisoners must be throwing overboard such portions
of the cargo as were not absolutely necessary to them, in order to lighten her.
This notion Bates declared to be correct, and further pointed out
that the mutineers had got out a kedge-anchor, and by hauling on
the kedge-line, were gradually warping the brig down the harbour.
Before dinner was over a light breeze sprang up, and the Osprey,
running up the union-jack reversed, fired a musket, either in farewell
or triumph, and, spreading her sails, disappeared round the western horn
of the harbour.

Mrs. Vickers, taking Sylvia with her, went away a few paces,
and leaning against the rugged wall of her future home, wept bitterly.
Bates and Frere affected cheerfulness, but each felt that he had hitherto
regarded the presence of the brig as a sort of safeguard, and had never
fully realized his own loneliness until now.

The necessity for work, however, admitted of no indulgence of vain sorrow,
and Bates setting the example, the pair worked so hard that by nightfall
they had torn down and dragged together sufficient brushwood to complete
Mrs. Vickers's hut.  During the progress of this work they were
often interrupted by Grimes, who persisted in vague rushes at them,
exclaiming loudly against their supposed treachery in leaving him
at the mercy of the mutineers.  Bates also complained of the pain
caused by the wound in his forehead, and that he was afflicted with a giddiness
which he knew not how to avert.  By dint of frequently bathing his head
at the spring, however, he succeeded in keeping on his legs, until the work
of dragging together the boughs was completed, when he threw himself
on the ground, and declared that he could rise no more.

Frere applied to him the remedy that had been so successfully tried
upon Grimes, but the salt water inflamed his wound and rendered
his condition worse.  Mrs. Vickers recommended that a little spirit and water
should be used to wash the cut, and the cask was got out and broached
for that purpose.  Tea and damper formed their evening meal;
and by the light of a blazing fire, their condition looked less desperate.
Mrs. Vickers had set the pannikin on a flat stone, and dispensed the tea
with an affectation of dignity which would have been absurd
had it not been heart-rending.  She had smoothed her hair and
pinned the white shawl about her coquettishly; she even ventured to lament
to Mr. Frere that she had not brought more clothes.  Sylvia was
in high spirits, and scorned to confess hunger.  When the tea had been drunk,
she fetched water from the spring in the kettle, and bathed
Bates's head with it.  It was resolved that, on the morrow,
a search should be made for some place from which to cast the fishing line,
and that one of the number should fish daily.

The condition of the unfortunate Grimes now gave cause for the greatest
uneasiness.  From maundering foolishly he had taken to absolute violence,
and had to be watched by Frere.  After much muttering and groaning,
the poor fellow at last dropped off to sleep, and Frere, having assisted Bates
to his sleeping-place in front of the rock, and laid him down on a heap
of green brushwood, prepared to snatch a few hours' slumber.
Wearied by excitement and the labours of the day, he slept heavily, but,
towards morning, was awakened by a strange noise.

Grimes, whose delirium had apparently increased, had succeeded
in forcing his way through the rude fence of brushwood, and had thrown himself
upon Bates with the ferocity of insanity.  Growling to himself,
he had seized the unfortunate pilot by the throat, and the pair
were struggling together.  Bates, weakened by the sickness that had followed
upon his wound in the head, was quite unable to cope with his
desperate assailant, but calling feebly upon Frere for help,
had made shift to lay hold upon the jack-knife of which we have before spoken.
Frere, starting to his feet, rushed to the assistance of the pilot,
but was too late.  Grimes, enraged by the sight of the knife,
tore it from Bates's grasp, and before Frere could catch his arm,
plunged it twice into the unfortunate man's breast.

"I'm a dead man!" cried Bates faintly.

The sight of the blood, together with the exclamation of his victim,
recalled Grimes to consciousness.  He looked in bewilderment
at the bloody weapon, and then, flinging it from him, rushed away
towards the sea, into which he plunged headlong.

Frere, aghast at this sudden and terrible tragedy, gazed after him,
and saw from out the placid water, sparkling in the bright beams of morning,
a pair of arms, with outstretched hands, emerge; a black spot,
that was a head, uprose between these stiffening arms, and then,
with a horrible cry, the whole disappeared, and the bright water sparkled
as placidly as before.  The eyes of the terrified Frere,
travelling back to the wounded man, saw, midway between this sparkling water
and the knife that lay on the sand, an object that went far to explain
the maniac's sudden burst of fury.  The rum cask lay upon its side
by the remnants of last night's fire, and close to it was a clout,
with which the head of the wounded man had been bound.  It was evident
that the poor creature, wandering in his delirium, had come across
the rum cask, drunk a quantity of its contents, and been maddened
by the fiery spirit.

Frere hurried to the side of Bates, and lifting him up, strove to staunch
the blood that flowed from his chest.  It would seem that he had been
resting himself on his left elbow, and that Grimes, snatching the knife
from his right hand, had stabbed him twice in the right breast.
He was pale and senseless, and Frere feared that the wound was mortal.
Tearing off his neck-handkerchief, he endeavoured to bandage the wound,
but found that the strip of silk was insufficient for the purpose.
The noise had roused Mrs. Vickers, who, stifling her terror,
made haste to tear off a portion of her dress, and with this a bandage
of sufficient width was made.  Frere went to the cask to see if, haply,
he could obtain from it a little spirit with which to moisten the lips
of the dying man, but it was empty.  Grimes, after drinking his fill,
had overturned the unheaded puncheon, and the greedy sand had absorbed
every drop of liquor.  Sylvia brought some water from the spring,
and Mrs. Vickers bathing Bates's head with this, he revived a little.
By-and-by Mrs. Vickers milked the goat--she had never done such a thing before
in all her life--and the milk being given to Bates in a pannikin,
he drank it eagerly, but vomited it almost instantly.
It was evident that he was sinking from some internal injury.

None of the party had much appetite for breakfast, but Frere,
whose sensibilities were less acute than those of the others,
ate a piece of salt meat and damper.  It struck him, with a curious feeling
of pleasant selfishness, that now Grimes had gone, the allowance
of provisions would be increased, and that if Bates went also,
it would be increased still further.  He did not give utterance
to his thoughts, however, but sat with the wounded man's head on his knees,
and brushed the settling flies from his face.  He hoped, after all,
that the pilot would not die, for he should then be left alone
to look after the women.  Perhaps some such thought was agitating
Mrs. Vickers also.  As for Sylvia, she made no secret of her anxiety.

"Don't die, Mr. Bates--oh, don't die!" she said, standing piteously near,
but afraid to touch him.  "Don't leave mamma and me alone
in this dreadful place!"

Poor Bates, of course, said nothing, but Frere frowned heavily,
and Mrs. Vickers said reprovingly, "Sylvia!" just as if they had been
in the old house on distant Sarah Island.

In the afternoon Frere went away to drag together some wood for the fire,
and when he returned he found the pilot near his end.  Mrs. Vickers said
that for an hour he had lain without motion, and almost without breath.
The major's wife had seen more than one death-bed, and was calm enough;
but poor little Sylvia, sitting on a stone hard by, shook with terror.
She had a dim notion that death must be accompanied by violence.
As the sun sank, Bates rallied; but the two watchers knew that
it was but the final flicker of the expiring candle.  "He's going!"
said Frere at length, under his breath, as though fearful of awaking
his half-slumbering soul.  Mrs. Vickers, her eyes streaming with silent tears,
lifted the honest head, and moistened the parched lips
with her soaked handkerchief.  A tremor shook the once stalwart limbs,
and the dying man opened his eyes.  For an instant he seemed bewildered,
and then, looking from one to the other, intelligence returned to his glance,
and it was evident that he remembered all.  His gaze rested upon the pale face
of the affrighted Sylvia, and then turned to Frere.  There could be
no mistaking the mute appeal of those eloquent eyes.

"Yes, I'll take care of her," said Frere.

Bates smiled, and then, observing that the blood from his wound had stained
the white shawl of Mrs. Vickers, he made an effort to move his head.
It was not fitting that a lady's shawl should be stained with the blood
of a poor fellow like himself.  The fashionable fribble, with quick instinct,
understood the gesture, and gently drew the head back upon her bosom.
In the presence of death the woman was womanly.  For a moment all was silent,
and they thought he had gone; but all at once he opened his eyes
and looked round for the sea

"Turn my face to it once more," he whispered; and as they raised him,
he inclined his ear to listen.  "It's calm enough here, God bless it,"
he said; "but I can hear the waves a-breaking hard upon the Bar!"

And so his head dropped, and he died.

As Frere relieved Mrs. Vickers from the weight of the corpse,
Sylvia ran to her mother.  "Oh, mamma, mamma," she cried, "why did God
let him die when we wanted him so much?"

Before it grew dark, Frere made shift to carry the body to the shelter
of some rocks at a little distance, and spreading the jacket over the face,
he piled stones upon it to keep it steady.  The march of events had been
so rapid that he scarcely realized that since the previous evening
two of the five human creatures left in this wilderness had escaped from it.
As he did realize it, he began to wonder whose turn it would be next.

Mrs. Vickers, worn out by the fatigue and excitement of the day,
retired to rest early; and Sylvia, refusing to speak to Frere,
followed her mother.  This manifestation of unaccountable dislike
on the part of the child hurt Maurice more than he cared to own.
He felt angry with her for not loving him, and yet he took no pains
to conciliate her.  It was with a curious pleasure that he remembered
how she must soon look up to him as her chief protector.  Had Sylvia been
just a few years older, the young man would have thought himself
in love with her.

The following day passed gloomily.  It was hot and sultry, and a dull haze
hung over the mountains.  Frere spent the morning in scooping a grave
in the sand, in which to inter poor Bates.  Practically awake
to his own necessities, he removed such portions of clothing from the body
as would be useful to him, but hid them under a stone, not liking
to let Mrs. Vickers see what he had done.  Having completed the grave
by midday, he placed the corpse therein, and rolled as many stones as possible
to the sides of the mound.  In the afternoon he cast the fishing line
from the point of a rock he had marked the day before, but caught nothing.
Passing by the grave, on his return, he noticed that Mrs. Vickers
had placed at the head of it a rude cross, formed by tying
two pieces of stick together.

After supper--the usual salt meat and damper--he lit an economical pipe, and
tried to talk to Sylvia.  "Why won't you be friends with me, missy?" he asked.

"I don't like you," said Sylvia.  "You frighten me."

"Why?"

"You are not kind.  I don't mean that you do cruel things; but you are--oh,
I wish papa was here!" "Wishing won't bring him!" says Frere,
pressing his hoarded tobacco together with prudent forefinger.

"There!  That's what I mean!  Is that kind?  'Wishing won't bring him!'
Oh, if it only would!"

"I didn't mean it unkindly," says Frere.  "What a strange child you are."

"There are persons," says Sylvia, "who have no Affinity for each other.
I read about it in a book papa had, and I suppose that's what it is.
I have no Affinity for you.  I can't help it, can I?"

"Rubbish!" Frere returned.  "Come here, and I'll tell you a story."

Mrs. Vickers had gone back to her cave, and the two were alone by the fire,
near which stood the kettle and the newly-made damper.  The child,
with some show of hesitation, came to him, and he caught and placed her
on his knee.  The moon had not yet risen, and the shadows cast
by the flickering fire seemed weird and monstrous.  The wicked wish
to frighten this helpless creature came to Maurice Frere.

"There was once," said he, "a Castle in an old wood, and in this Castle
there lived an Ogre, with great goggle eyes."

"You silly man!" said Sylvia, struggling to be free.  "You are trying
to frighten me!"

"And this Ogre lived on the bones of little girls.  One day a little girl was
travelling the wood, and she heard the Ogre coming.  'Haw!  haw!  Haw!  haw!'"

"Mr. Frere, let me down!"

"She was terribly frightened, and she ran, and ran, and ran, until
all of a sudden she saw--"

A piercing scream burst from his companion.  "Oh!  oh!  What's that?"
she cried, and clung to her persecutor.

Beyond the fire stood the figure of a man.  He staggered forward,
and then, falling on his knees, stretched out his hands,
and hoarsely articulated one word--"Food." It was Rufus Dawes.

The sound of a human voice broke the spell of terror that was on the child,
and as the glow from the fire fell upon the tattered yellow garments,
she guessed at once the whole story.  Not so Maurice Frere.
He saw before him a new danger, a new mouth to share the scanty provision,
and snatching a brand from the fire he kept the convict at bay.
But Rufus Dawes, glaring round with wolfish eyes, caught sight of the damper
resting against the iron kettle, and made a clutch at it.  Frere dashed
the brand in his face.  "Stand back!" he cried.  "We have no food to spare!"

The convict uttered a savage cry, and raising the iron gad,
plunged forward desperately to attack this new enemy; but, quick as thought,
the child glided past Frere, and, snatching the loaf, placed it in the hands
of the starving man, with "Here, poor prisoner, eat!" and then,
turning to Frere, she cast upon him a glance so full of horror,
indignation, and surprise, that the man blushed and threw down the brand.

As for Rufus Dawes, the sudden apparition of this golden-haired girl
seemed to have transformed him.  Allowing the loaf to slip through his fingers,
he gazed with haggard eyes at the retreating figure of the child,
and as it vanished into the darkness outside the circle of firelight,
the unhappy man sank his face upon his blackened, horny hands,
and burst into tears.




CHAPTER XII.

"MR." DAWES.



The coarse tones of Maurice Frere roused him.  "What do you want?" he asked.
Rufus Dawes, raising his head, contemplated the figure before him,
and recognized it.  "Is it you?" he said slowly.

"What do you mean?  Do you know me?" asked Frere, drawing back.
But the convict did not reply.  His momentary emotion passed away,
the pangs of hunger returned, and greedily seizing upon the piece of damper,
he began to eat in silence.

"Do you hear, man?" repeated Frere, at length.  "What are you?"

"An escaped prisoner.  You can give me up in the morning.  I've done my best,
and I'm beat."

The sentence struck Frere with dismay.  The man did not know
that the settlement had been abandoned!

"I cannot give you up.  There is no one but myself and a woman and child
on the settlement."  Rufus Dawes, pausing in his eating, stared at him
in amazement.  "The prisoners have gone away in the schooner.
If you choose to remain free, you can do so as far as I am concerned.
I am as helpless as you are."

"But how do you come here?"

Frere laughed bitterly.  To give explanations to convicts was foreign
to his experience, and he did not relish the task.  In this case, however,
there was no help for it.  "The prisoners mutinied and seized the brig."

"What brig?"

"The Osprey."

A terrible light broke upon Rufus Dawes, and he began to understand
how he had again missed his chance.  "Who took her?"

"That double-dyed villain, John Rex," says Frere, giving vent to his passion.
"May she sink, and burn, and--"

"Have they gone, then?" cried the miserable man, clutching at his hair
with a gesture of hopeless rage.

"Yes; two days ago, and left us here to starve." Rufus Dawes
burst into a laugh so discordant that it made the other shudder.
"We'll starve together, Maurice Frere," said he, "for while you've a crust,
I'll share it.  If I don't get liberty, at least I'll have revenge!"

The sinister aspect of this famished savage, sitting with his chin
on his ragged knees, rocking himself to and fro in the light of the fire,
gave Mr. Maurice Frere a new sensation.  He felt as might have felt
that African hunter who, returning to his camp fire, found a lion there.
"Wretch!" said he, shrinking from him, "why should you wish
to be revenged on me?"

The convict turned upon him with a snarl.  "Take care what you say!
I'll have no hard words.  Wretch!  If I am a wretch, who made me one?
If I hate you and myself and the world, who made me hate it?
I was born free--as free as you are.  Why should I be sent to herd with beasts,
and condemned to this slavery, worse than death?  Tell me that,
Maurice Frere--tell me that!" "I didn't make the laws," says Frere,
"why do you attack me?"

"Because you are what I was.  You are FREE!  You can do as you please.
You can love, you can work, you can think.  I can only hate!"
He paused as if astonished at himself, and then continued, with a low laugh.
"Fine words for a convict, eh!  But, never mind, it's all right, Mr. Frere;
we're equal now, and I sha'n't die an hour sooner than you,
though you are a 'free man'!"

Frere began to think that he was dealing with another madman.

"Die!  There's no need to talk of dying," he said, as soothingly
as it was possible for him to say it.  "Time enough for that by-and-by."

"There spoke the free man.  We convicts have an advantage over you gentlemen.
You are afraid of death; we pray for it.  It is the best thing
that can happen to us.  Die!  They were going to hang me once.
I wish they had.  My God, I wish they had!"

There was such a depth of agony in this terrible utterance that Maurice Frere
was appalled at it.  "There, go and sleep, my man," he said.
"You are knocked up.  We'll talk in the morning."

"Hold on a bit!" cried Rufus Dawes, with a coarseness of manner
altogether foreign to that he had just assumed.  "Who's with ye?"

"The wife and daughter of the Commandant," replied Frere, half afraid
to refuse an answer to a question so fiercely put.

"No one else?"

"No." "Poor souls!" said the convict, "I pity them." And then
he stretched himself, like a dog, before the blaze, and went to sleep
instantly.  Maurice Frere, looking at the gaunt figure of this addition
to the party, was completely puzzled how to act.  Such a character
had never before come within the range of his experience.  He knew not
what to make of this fierce, ragged, desperate man, who wept and threatened
by turns--who was now snarling in the most repulsive bass of the convict gamut,
and now calling upon Heaven in tones which were little less than eloquent.
At first he thought of precipitating himself upon the sleeping wretch
and pinioning him, but a second glance at the sinewy, though wasted, limbs
forbade him to follow out the rash suggestion of his own fears.
Then a horrible prompting--arising out of his former cowardice--
made him feel for the jack-knife with which one murder had already
been committed.  Their stock of provisions was so scanty, and after all,
the lives of the woman and child were worth more than that of this
unknown desperado!  But, to do him justice, the thought no sooner shaped itself
than he crushed it out.  "We'll wait till morning, and see how he shapes,"
said Frere to himself; and pausing at the brushwood barricade,
behind which the mother and daughter were clinging to each other,
he whispered that he was on guard outside, and that the absconder slept.
But when morning dawned, he found that there was no need for alarm.
The convict was lying in almost the same position as that
in which he had left him, and his eyes were closed.  His threatening outbreak
of the previous night had been produced by the excitement of his sudden rescue,
and he was now incapable of violence.  Frere advanced,
and shook him by the shoulder.

"Not alive!" cried the poor wretch, waking with a start,
and raising his arm to strike.  "Keep off!"

"It's all right," said Frere.  "No one is going to harm you.  Wake up."

Rufus Dawes glanced around him stupidly, and then remembering
what had happened, with a great effort, he staggered to his feet.
"I thought they'd got me!" he said, "but it's the other way, I see.
Come, let's have breakfast, Mr. Frere.  I'm hungry."

"You must wait," said Frere.  "Do you think there is no one here but yourself?"

Rufus Dawes, swaying to and fro from weakness, passed his shred of a cuff
over his eyes.  "I don't know anything about it.  I only know I'm hungry."

Frere stopped short.  Now or never was the time to settle future relations.
Lying awake in the night, with the jack-knife ready to his hand,
he had decided on the course of action that must be adopted.
The convict should share with the rest, but no more.  If he rebelled at that,
there must be a trial of strength between them.  "Look you here," he said.
"We have but barely enough food to serve us until help comes--if it does come.
I have the care of that poor woman and child, and I will see fair play
for their sakes.  You shall share with us to our last bit and drop,
but, by Heaven, you shall get no more."

The convict, stretching out his wasted arms, looked down upon them
with the uncertain gaze of a drunken man.  "I am weak now," he said.
"You have the best of me"; and then he sank suddenly down upon the ground,
exhausted.  "Give me a drink," he moaned, feebly motioning with his hand.
Frere got him water in the pannikin, and having drunk it, he smiled
and lay down to sleep again.  Mrs. Vickers and Sylvia, coming out
while he still slept, recognized him as the desperado of the settlement.

"He was the most desperate man we had," said Mrs. Vickers, identifying herself
with her husband.  "Oh, what shall we do?"

"He won't do much harm," returned Frere, looking down at the notorious ruffian
with curiosity.  "He's as near dead as can be."

Sylvia looked up at him with her clear child's glance.  "We mustn't
let him die," said she.  "That would be murder."  "No, no," returned Frere,
hastily, "no one wants him to die.  But what can we do?"

"I'll nurse him!" cried Sylvia.

Frere broke into one of his coarse laughs, the first one that he had
indulged in since the mutiny.  "You nurse him!  By George, that's a good one!"
The poor little child, weak and excitable, felt the contempt in the tone,
and burst into a passion of sobs.  "Why do you insult me, you wicked man?
The poor fellow's ill, and he'll--he'll die, like Mr. Bates.
Oh, mamma, mamma, Let's go away by ourselves."

Frere swore a great oath, and walked away.  He went into the little wood
under the cliff, and sat down.  He was full of strange thoughts,
which he could not express, and which he had never owned before.
The dislike the child bore to him made him miserable, and yet he took delight
in tormenting her.  He was conscious that he had acted the part
of a coward the night before in endeavouring to frighten her,
and that the detestation she bore him was well earned; but he had
fully determined to stake his life in her defence, should the savage
who had thus come upon them out of the desert attempt violence,
and he was unreasonably angry at the pity she had shown.  It was not fair
to be thus misinterpreted.  But he had done wrong to swear,
and more so in quitting them so abruptly.  The consciousness
of his wrong-doing, however, only made him more confirmed in it.
His native obstinacy would not allow him to retract what he had said--
even to himself.  Walking along, he came to Bates's grave,
and the cross upon it.  Here was another evidence of ill-treatment.
She had always preferred Bates.  Now that Bates was gone, she must needs
transfer her childish affections to a convict.  "Oh," said Frere to himself,
with pleasant recollections of many coarse triumphs in love-making,
"if you were a woman, you little vixen, I'd make you love me!"
When he had said this, he laughed at himself for his folly--he was
turning romantic!  When he got back, he found Dawes stretched upon
the brushwood, with Sylvia sitting near him.

"He is better," said Mrs. Vickers, disdaining to refer to the scene
of the morning.  "Sit down and have something to eat, Mr. Frere."

"Are you better?" asked Frere, abruptly.

To his surprise, the convict answered quite civilly, "I shall be strong again
in a day or two, and then I can help you, sir."

"Help me?  How?" "To build a hut here for the ladies.  And we'll live here
all our lives, and never go back to the sheds any more."

"He has been wandering a little," said Mrs. Vickers.  "Poor fellow,
he seems quite well behaved."

The convict began to sing a little German song, and to beat the refrain
with his hand.  Frere looked at him with curiosity.  "I wonder what the story
of that man's life has been," he said.  "A queer one, I'll be bound."

Sylvia looked up at him with a forgiving smile.  "I'll ask him
when he gets well," she said, "and if you are good, I'll tell you,
Mr. Frere."

Frere accepted the proffered friendship.  "I am a great brute, Sylvia,
sometimes, ain't I?" he said, "but I don't mean it."

"You are," returned Sylvia, frankly, "but let's shake hands, and be friends.
It's no use quarrelling when there are only four of us, is it?"
And in this way was Rufus Dawes admitted a member of the family circle.

Within a week from the night on which he had seen the smoke of Frere's fire,
the convict had recovered his strength, and had become an important personage.
The distrust with which he had been at first viewed had worn off,
and he was no longer an outcast, to be shunned and pointed at,
or to be referred to in whispers.  He had abandoned his rough manner,
and no longer threatened or complained, and though at times
a profound melancholy would oppress him, his spirits were more even than those
of Frere, who was often moody, sullen, and overbearing.  Rufus Dawes
was no longer the brutalized wretch who had plunged into the dark waters
of the bay to escape a life he loathed, and had alternately cursed and wept
in the solitudes of the forests.  He was an active member of society--
a society of four--and he began to regain an air of independence and authority.
This change had been wrought by the influence of little Sylvia.
Recovered from the weakness consequent upon this terrible journey,
Rufus Dawes had experienced for the first time in six years the soothing power
of kindness.  He had now an object to live for beyond himself.
He was of use to somebody, and had he died, he would have been regretted.
To us this means little; to this unhappy man it meant everything.
He found, to his astonishment, that he was not despised, and that,
by the strange concurrence of circumstances, he had been brought into
a position in which his convict experiences gave him authority.
He was skilled in all the mysteries of the prison sheds.  He knew how
to sustain life on as little food as possible.  He could fell trees
without an axe, bake bread without an oven, build a weatherproof hut
without bricks or mortar.  From the patient he became the adviser;
and from the adviser, the commander.  In the semi-savage state
to which these four human beings had been brought, he found that
savage accomplishments were of most value.  Might was Right,
and Maurice Frere's authority of gentility soon succumbed
to Rufus Dawes's authority of knowledge.

As the time wore on, and the scanty stock of provisions decreased,
he found that his authority grew more and more powerful.  Did a question arise
as to the qualities of a strange plant, it was Rufus Dawes who could pronounce
upon it.  Were fish to be caught, it was Rufus Dawes who caught them.
Did Mrs. Vickers complain of the instability of her brushwood hut,
it was Rufus Dawes who worked a wicker shield, and plastering it with clay,
produced a wall that defied the keenest wind.  He made cups out of pine-knots,
and plates out of bark-strips.  He worked harder than any three men.
Nothing daunted him, nothing discouraged him.  When Mrs. Vickers fell sick,
from anxiety and insufficient food, it was Rufus Dawes who gathered
fresh leaves for her couch, who cheered her by hopeful words,
who voluntarily gave up half his own allowance of meat that she might
grow stronger on it.  The poor woman and her child called him "Mr." Dawes.

Frere watched all this with dissatisfaction that amounted at times
to positive hatred.  Yet he could say nothing, for he could not but acknowledge
that, beside Dawes, he was incapable.  He even submitted to take orders
from this escaped convict--it was so evident that the escaped convict
knew better than he.  Sylvia began to look upon Dawes as a second Bates.
He was, moreover, all her own.  She had an interest in him, for she had nursed
and protected him.  If it had not been for her, this prodigy
would not have lived.  He felt for her an absorbing affection
that was almost a passion.  She was his good angel, his protectress,
his glimpse of Heaven.  She had given him food when he was starving,
and had believed in him when the world--the world of four--
had looked coldly on him.  He would have died for her, and, for love of her,
hoped for the vessel which should take her back to freedom
and give him again into bondage.

But the days stole on, and no vessel appeared.  Each day they eagerly scanned
the watery horizon; each day they longed to behold the bowsprit
of the returning Ladybird glide past the jutting rock that shut out the view
of the harbour--but in vain.  Mrs. Vickers's illness increased,
and the stock of provisions began to run short.  Dawes talked
of putting himself and Frere on half allowance.  It was evident that,
unless succour came in a few days, they must starve.

Frere mooted all sorts of wild plans for obtaining food.
He would make a journey to the settlement, and, swimming the estuary,
search if haply any casks of biscuit had been left behind in the hurry
of departure.  He would set springes for the seagulls, and snare the pigeons
at Liberty Point.  But all these proved impracticable, and with blank faces
they watched their bag of flour grow smaller and smaller daily.
Then the notion of escape was broached.  Could they construct a raft?
Impossible without nails or ropes.  Could they build a boat?
Equally impossible for the same reason.  Could they raise a fire
sufficient to signal a ship?  Easily; but what ship would come within reach
of that doubly-desolate spot?  Nothing could be done but wait for a vessel,
which was sure to come for them sooner or later; and,
growing weaker day by day, they waited.

One morning Sylvia was sitting in the sun reading the "English History",
which, by the accident of fright, she had brought with her on the night
of the mutiny.  "Mr. Frere," said she, suddenly, "what is an alchemist?"

"A man who makes gold," was Frere's not very accurate definition.

"Do you know one?"

"No."

"Do you, Mr. Dawes?"

"I knew a man once who thought himself one."

"What!  A man who made gold?"

"After a fashion."

"But did he make gold?" persisted Sylvia.

"No, not absolutely make it.  But he was, in his worship of money,
an alchemist for all that."

"What became of him?"

"I don't know," said Dawes, with so much constraint in his tone
that the child instinctively turned the subject.

"Then, alchemy is a very old art?"

"Oh, yes."

"Did the Ancient Britons know it?"

"No, not as old as that!"

Sylvia suddenly gave a little scream.  The remembrance of the evening
when she read about the Ancient Britons to poor Bates came vividly
into her mind, and though she had since re-read the passage
that had then attracted her attention a hundred times, it had never before
presented itself to her in its full significance.  Hurriedly turning
the well-thumbed leaves, she read aloud the passage which had provoked remark:-

"'The Ancient Britons were little better than Barbarians.
They painted their bodies with Woad, and, seated in their light coracles
of skin stretched upon slender wooden frames, must have presented
a wild and savage appearance.'"

"A coracle!  That's a boat!  Can't we make a coracle, Mr. Dawes?" 




CHAPTER XIII.

WHAT THE SEAWEED SUGGESTED.



The question gave the marooned party new hopes.  Maurice Frere,
with his usual impetuosity, declared that the project was a most feasible one,
and wondered--as such men will wonder--that it had never occurred to him
before.  "It's the simplest thing in the world!" he cried.  "Sylvia,
you have saved us!" But upon taking the matter into more earnest consideration,
it became apparent that they were as yet a long way from the realization
of their hopes.  To make a coracle of skins seemed sufficiently easy,
but how to obtain the skins!  The one miserable hide of the unlucky she-goat
was utterly inadequate for the purpose.  Sylvia--her face beaming
with the hope of escape, and with delight at having been the means
of suggesting it--watched narrowly the countenance of Rufus Dawes,
but she marked no answering gleam of joy in those eyes.  "Can't it be done,
Mr. Dawes?" she asked, trembling for the reply.

The convict knitted his brows gloomily.

"Come, Dawes!" cried Frere, forgetting his enmity for an instant
in the flash of new hope, "can't you suggest something?"

Rufus Dawes, thus appealed to as the acknowledged Head of the little society,
felt a pleasant thrill of self-satisfaction.  "I don't know," he said.
"I must think of it.  It looks easy, and yet--" He paused as something
in the water caught his eye.  It was a mass of bladdery seaweed
that the returning tide was wafting slowly to the shore.  This object,
which would have passed unnoticed at any other time, suggested to Rufus Dawes
a new idea.  "Yes," he added slowly, with a change of tone, "it may be done.
I think I can see my way."

The others preserved a respectful silence until he should speak again.
"How far do you think it is across the bay?" he asked of Frere.

"What, to Sarah Island?"

"No, to the Pilot Station."

"About four miles."

The convict sighed.  "Too far to swim now, though I might have done it once.
But this sort of life weakens a man.  It must be done after all."

"What are you going to do?" asked Frere.

"To kill the goat."

Sylvia uttered a little cry; she had become fond of her dumb companion.
"Kill Nanny!  Oh, Mr. Dawes!  What for?"

"I am going to make a boat for you," he said, "and I want hides,
and thread, and tallow."

A few weeks back Maurice Frere would have laughed at such a sentence,
but he had begun now to comprehend that this escaped convict
was not a man to be laughed at, and though he detested him for his superiority,
he could not but admit that he was superior.

"You can't get more than one hide off a goat, man?" he said,
with an inquiring tone in his voice--as though it was just possible
that such a marvellous being as Dawes could get a second hide,
by virtue of some secret process known only to himself.

"I am going to catch other goats." "Where?"

"At the Pilot Station."

"But how are you going to get there?"

"Float across.  Come, there is not time for questioning!  Go and cut down
some saplings, and let us begin!"

The lieutenant-master looked at the convict prisoner with astonishment,
and then gave way to the power of knowledge, and did as he was ordered.
Before sundown that evening the carcase of poor Nanny, broken into various
most unbutcherly fragments, was hanging on the nearest tree; and Frere,
returning with as many young saplings as he could drag together,
found Rufus Dawes engaged in a curious occupation.  He had killed the goat,
and having cut off its head close under the jaws, and its legs
at the knee-joint, had extracted the carcase through a slit
made in the lower portion of the belly, which slit he had now sewn together
with string.  This proceeding gave him a rough bag, and he was busily engaged
in filling this bag with such coarse grass as he could collect.
Frere observed, also, that the fat of the animal was carefully preserved,
and the intestines had been placed in a pool of water to soak.

The convict, however, declined to give information as to what
he intended to do.  "It's my own notion," he said.  "Let me alone.
I may make a failure of it." Frere, on being pressed by Sylvia,
affected to know all about the scheme, but to impose silence on himself.
He was galled to think that a convict brain should contain a mystery
which he might not share.

On the next day, by Rufus Dawes's direction, Frere cut down some rushes
that grew about a mile from the camping ground, and brought them
in on his back.  This took him nearly half a day to accomplish.
Short rations were beginning to tell upon his physical powers.  The convict,
on the other hand, trained by a woeful experience in the Boats
to endurance of hardship, was slowly recovering his original strength.

"What are they for?" asked Frere, as he flung the bundles down.
His master condescended to reply.  "To make a float."

"Well?"

The other shrugged his broad shoulders.  "You are very dull, Mr. Frere.
I am going to swim over to the Pilot Station, and catch some of those goats.
I can get across on the stuffed skin, but I must float them back on the reeds."

"How the doose do you mean to catch 'em?" asked Frere,
wiping the sweat from his brow.

The convict motioned to him to approach.  He did so, and saw that his companion
was cleaning the intestines of the goat.  The outer membrane
having been peeled off, Rufus Dawes was turning the gut inside out.
This he did by turning up a short piece of it, as though it were a coat-sleeve,
and dipping the turned-up cuff into a pool of water.  The weight of the water
pressing between the cuff and the rest of the gut, bore down a further portion;
and so, by repeated dippings, the whole length was turned inside out.
The inner membrane having been scraped away, there remained
a fine transparent tube, which was tightly twisted, and set to dry in the sun.

"There is the catgut for the noose," said Dawes.  "I learnt that trick
at the settlement.  Now come here."

Frere, following, saw that a fire had been made between two stones,
and that the kettle was partly sunk in the ground near it.
On approaching the kettle, he found it full of smooth pebbles.

"Take out those stones," said Dawes.

Frere obeyed, and saw at the bottom of the kettle a quantity of sparkling
white powder, and the sides of the vessel crusted with the same material.

"What's that?" he asked.

"Salt."

"How did you get it?"

"I filled the kettle with sea-water, and then, heating those pebbles red-hot
in the fire, dropped them into it.  We could have caught the steam
in a cloth and wrung out fresh water had we wished to do so.
But, thank God, we have plenty."

Frere started.  "Did you learn that at the settlement, too?" he asked.

Rufus Dawes laughed, with a sort of bitterness in his tones.
"Do you think I have been at 'the settlement' all my life?
The thing is very simple, it is merely evaporation."

Frere burst out in sudden, fretful admiration: "What a fellow you are, Dawes!
What are you--I mean, what have you been?"

A triumphant light came into the other's face, and for the instant
he seemed about to make some startling revelation.  But the light faded,
and he checked himself with a gesture of pain.

"I am a convict.  Never mind what I have been.  A sailor, a shipbuilder,
prodigal, vagabond--what does it matter?  It won't alter my fate, will it?"

"If we get safely back," says Frere, "I'll ask for a free pardon for you.
You deserve it."

"Come," returned Dawes, with a discordant laugh.  "Let us wait
until we get back."

"You don't believe me?"

"I don't want favour at your hands," he said, with a return
of the old fierceness.  "Let us get to work.  Bring up the rushes here,
and tie them with a fishing line."

At this instant Sylvia came up.  "Good afternoon, Mr. Dawes.  Hard at work?
Oh!  what's this in the kettle?" The voice of the child acted like a charm
upon Rufus Dawes.  He smiled quite cheerfully.

"Salt, miss.  I am going to catch the goats with that."

"Catch the goats!  How?  Put it on their tails?" she cried merrily.

"Goats are fond of salt, and when I get over to the Pilot Station
I shall set traps for them baited with this salt.  When they come to lick it,
I shall have a noose of catgut ready to catch them--do you understand?"

"But how will you get across?"

"You will see to-morrow." 




CHAPTER XIV.

A WONDERFUL DAY'S WORK.



The next morning Rufus Dawes was stirring by daylight.  He first got his catgut
wound upon a piece of stick, and then, having moved his frail floats
alongside the little rock that served as a pier, he took a fishing line
and a larger piece of stick, and proceeded to draw a diagram on the sand.
This diagram when completed represented a rude outline of a punt,
eight feet long and three broad.  At certain distances were eight points--
four on each side--into which small willow rods were driven.
He then awoke Frere and showed the diagram to him.

"Get eight stakes of celery-top pine," he said.  "You can burn them
where you cannot cut them, and drive a stake into the place of each
of these willow wands.  When you have done that, collect as many willows
as you can get.  I shall not be back until tonight.  Now give me a hand
with the floats."

Frere, coming to the pier, saw Dawes strip himself, and piling his clothes
upon the stuffed goat-skin, stretch himself upon the reed bundles,
and, paddling with his hands, push off from the shore.  The clothes floated
high and dry, but the reeds, depressed by the weight of the body,
sank so that the head of the convict alone appeared above water.
In this fashion he gained the middle of the current, and the out-going tide
swept him down towards the mouth of the harbour.

Frere, sulkily admiring, went back to prepare the breakfast--
they were on half rations now, Dawes having forbidden the slaughtered goat
to be eaten, lest his expedition should prove unsuccessful--wondering at
the chance which had thrown this convict in his way.  "Parsons would call it
'a special providence,'" he said to himself.  "For if it hadn't been for him,
we should never have got thus far.  If his 'boat' succeeds, we're all right,
I suppose.  He's a clever dog.  I wonder who he is." His training
as a master of convicts made him think how dangerous such a man would be
on a convict station.  It would be difficult to keep a fellow
of such resources.  "They'll have to look pretty sharp after him
if they ever get him back," he thought.  "I'll have a fine tale to tell
of his ingenuity." The conversation of the previous day occurred to him.
"I promised to ask for a free pardon.  He wouldn't have it, though.
Too proud to accept it at my hands!  Wait until we get back.
I'll teach him his place; for, after all, it is his own liberty
that he is working for as well as mine--I mean ours." Then a thought came
into his head that was in every way worthy of him.  "Suppose we took the boat,
and left him behind!" The notion seemed so ludicrously wicked
that he laughed involuntarily.

"What is it, Mr. Frere?"

"Oh, it's you, Sylvia, is it?  Ha, ha, ha!  I was thinking of something
--something funny."

"Indeed," said Sylvia, "I am glad of that.  Where's Mr. Dawes?"

Frere was displeased at the interest with which she asked the question.

"You are always thinking of that fellow.  It's Dawes, Dawes, Dawes
all day long.  He has gone."

"Oh!" with a sorrowful accent.  "Mamma wants to see him."

"What about?" says Frere roughly.  "Mamma is ill, Mr. Frere."

"Dawes isn't a doctor.  What's the matter with her?"

"She is worse than she was yesterday.  I don't know what is the matter."

Frere, somewhat alarmed, strode over to the little cavern.

The "lady of the Commandant" was in a strange plight.  The cavern was lofty,
but narrow.  In shape it was three-cornered, having two sides open to the wind.
The ingenuity of Rufus Dawes had closed these sides with wicker-work
and clay, and a sort of door of interlaced brushwood hung at one of them.
Frere pushed open this door and entered.  The poor woman was lying
on a bed of rushes strewn over young brushwood, and was moaning feebly.
From the first she had felt the privation to which she was subjected
most keenly, and the mental anxiety from which she suffered
increased her physical debility.  The exhaustion and lassitude
to which she had partially succumbed soon after Dawes's arrival,
had now completely overcome her, and she was unable to rise.

"Cheer up, ma'am," said Maurice, with an assumption of heartiness.
"It will be all right in a day or two."

"Is it you?  I sent for Mr. Dawes."

"He is away just now.  I am making a boat.  Did not Sylvia tell you?"

"She told me that he was making one."

"Well, I--that is, we--are making it.  He will be back again tonight.
Can I do anything for you?"

"No, thank you.  I only wanted to know how he was getting on.
I must go soon--if I am to go.  Thank you, Mr. Frere.  I am much obliged
to you.  This is a--he-e--dreadful place to have visitors, isn't it?"

"Never mind," said Frere, again, "you will be back in Hobart Town
in a few days now.  We are sure to get picked up by a ship.
But you must cheer up.  Have some tea or something."

"No, thank you--I don't feel well enough to eat.  I am tired."

Sylvia began to cry.

"Don't cry, dear.  I shall be better by and by.  Oh, I wish
Mr. Dawes was back."

Maurice Frere went out indignant.  This "Mr." Dawes was everybody,
it seemed, and he was nobody.  Let them wait a little.  All that day,
working hard to carry out the convict's directions, he meditated
a thousand plans by which he could turn the tables.  He would accuse Dawes
of violence.  He would demand that he should be taken back as an "absconder".
He would insist that the law should take its course, and that the "death"
which was the doom of all who were caught in the act of escape
from a penal settlement should be enforced.  Yet if they got safe to land,
the marvellous courage and ingenuity of the prisoner would tell strongly
in his favour.  The woman and child would bear witness to his tenderness
and skill, and plead for him.  As he had said, the convict deserved a pardon.
The mean, bad man, burning with wounded vanity and undefined jealousy,
waited for some method to suggest itself, by which he might claim
the credit of the escape, and snatch from the prisoner, who had dared
to rival him, the last hope of freedom.

Rufus Dawes, drifting with the current, had allowed himself to coast along
the eastern side of the harbour until the Pilot Station appeared in view
on the opposite shore.  By this time it was nearly seven o'clock.
He landed at a sandy cove, and drawing up his raft, proceeded to unpack
from among his garments a piece of damper.  Having eaten sparingly,
and dried himself in the sun, he replaced the remains of his breakfast,
and pushed his floats again into the water.  The Pilot Station lay
some distance below him, on the opposite shore.  He had purposely made
his second start from a point which would give him this advantage of position;
for had he attempted to paddle across at right angles, the strength
of the current would have swept him out to sea.  Weak as he was,
he several times nearly lost his hold on the reeds.  The clumsy bundle
presenting too great a broadside to the stream, whirled round and round,
and was once or twice nearly sucked under.  At length, however,
breathless and exhausted, he gained the opposite bank, half a mile below
the point he had attempted to make, and carrying his floats out of reach
of the tide, made off across the hill to the Pilot Station.

Arrived there about midday, he set to work to lay his snares.
The goats, with whose hides he hoped to cover the coracle,
were sufficiently numerous and tame to encourage him to use every exertion.
He carefully examined the tracks of the animals, and found that they converged
to one point--the track to the nearest water.  With much labour
he cut down bushes, so as to mask the approach to the waterhole on all sides
save where these tracks immediately conjoined.  Close to the water,
and at unequal distances along the various tracks, he scattered the salt
he had obtained by his rude distillation of sea-water.  Between this
scattered salt and the points where he judged the animals would be likely
to approach, he set his traps, made after the following manner.
He took several pliant branches of young trees, and having stripped them
of leaves and twigs, dug with his knife and the end of the rude paddle
he had made for the voyage across the inlet, a succession of holes,
about a foot deep.  At the thicker end of these saplings he fastened,
by a piece of fishing line, a small cross-bar, which swung loosely,
like the stick handle which a schoolboy fastens to the string of his pegtop.
Forcing the ends of the saplings thus prepared into the holes,
he filled in and stamped down the earth all around them.  The saplings,
thus anchored as it were by the cross-pieces of stick, not only stood firm,
but resisted all his efforts to withdraw them.  To the thin ends
of these saplings he bound tightly, into notches cut in the wood,
and secured by a multiplicity of twisting, the catgut springes he had brought
from the camping ground.  The saplings were then bent double,
and the gutted ends secured in the ground by the same means
as that employed to fix the butts.  This was the most difficult part
of the business, for it was necessary to discover precisely the amount
of pressure that would hold the bent rod without allowing it to escape
by reason of this elasticity, and which would yet "give" to a slight pull
on the gut.  After many failures, however, this happy medium was discovered;
and Rufus Dawes, concealing his springes by means of twigs,
smoothed the disturbed sand with a branch and retired to watch the effect
of his labours.  About two hours after he had gone, the goats came to drink.
There were five goats and two kids, and they trotted calmly along the path
to the water.  The watcher soon saw that his precautions had been
in a manner wasted.  The leading goat marched gravely into the springe,
which, catching him round his neck, released the bent rod,
and sprang him off his legs into the air.  He uttered a comical bleat,
and then hung kicking.  Rufus Dawes, though the success of the scheme
was a matter of life and death, burst out laughing at the antics of the beast.
The other goats bounded off at this sudden elevation of their leader,
and three more were entrapped at a little distance.  Rufus Dawes
now thought it time to secure his prize, though three of the springes
were as yet unsprung.  He ran down to the old goat, knife in hand,
but before he could reach him the barely-dried catgut gave way,
and the old fellow, shaking his head with grotesque dismay,
made off at full speed.  The others, however, were secured and killed.
The loss of the springe was not a serious one, for three traps
remained unsprung, and before sundown Rufus Dawes had caught four more goats.
Removing with care the catgut that had done such good service,
he dragged the carcases to the shore, and proceeded to pack them
upon his floats.  He discovered, however, that the weight was too great,
and that the water, entering through the loops of the stitching
in the hide, had so soaked the rush-grass as to render the floats
no longer buoyant.  He was compelled, therefore, to spend two hours
in re-stuffing the skin with such material as he could find.
Some light and flock-like seaweed, which the action of the water
had swathed after the fashion of haybands along the shore,
formed an excellent substitute for grass, and, having bound
his bundle of rushes lengthwise, with the goat-skin as a centre-piece,
he succeeded in forming a sort of rude canoe, upon which
the carcases floated securely.

He had eaten nothing since the morning, and the violence of his exertions
had exhausted him.  Still, sustained by the excitement of the task
he had set himself, he dismissed with fierce impatience the thought of rest,
and dragged his weary limbs along the sand, endeavouring to kill fatigue
by further exertion.  The tide was now running in, and he knew
it was imperative that he should regain the further shore while the current
was in his favour.  To cross from the Pilot Station at low water
was impossible.  If he waited until the ebb, he must spend another day
on the shore, and he could not afford to lose an hour.  Cutting a long sapling,
he fastened to one end of it the floating bundle, and thus guided it
to a spot where the beach shelved abruptly into deep water.
It was a clear night, and the risen moon large and low, flung a rippling streak
of silver across the sea.  On the other side of the bay all was bathed
in a violet haze, which veiled the inlet from which he had started
in the morning.  The fire of the exiles, hidden behind a point of rock,
cast a red glow into the air.  The ocean breakers rolled in upon the cliffs
outside the bar, with a hoarse and threatening murmur; and the rising tide
rippled and lapped with treacherous melody along the sand.
He touched the chill water and drew back.  For an instant he determined to wait
until the beams of morning should illumine that beautiful but treacherous sea,
and then the thought of the helpless child, who was, without doubt,
waiting and watching for him on the shore, gave new strength
to his wearied frame; and fixing his eyes on the glow that,
hovering above the dark tree-line, marked her presence, he pushed the raft
before him out into the sea.  The reeds sustained him bravely,
but the strength of the current sucked him underneath the water,
and for several seconds he feared that he should be compelled
to let go his hold.  But his muscles, steeled in the slow fire
of convict-labour, withstood this last strain upon them, and, half-suffocated,
with bursting chest and paralysed fingers, he preserved his position,
until the mass, getting out of the eddies along the shore-line,
drifted steadily down the silvery track that led to the settlement.
After a few moments' rest, he set his teeth, and urged his strange canoe
towards the shore.  Paddling and pushing, he gradually edged it
towards the fire-light; and at last, just when his stiffened limbs refused
to obey the impulse of his will, and he began to drift onwards
with the onward tide, he felt his feet strike firm ground.
Opening his eyes--closed in the desperation of his last efforts--
he found himself safe under the lee of the rugged promontory
which hid the fire.  It seemed that the waves, tired of persecuting him,
had, with disdainful pity, cast him ashore at the goal of his hopes.
Looking back, he for the first time realized the frightful peril
he had escaped, and shuddered.  To this shudder succeeded a thrill of triumph.
"Why had he stayed so long, when escape was so easy?" Dragging the carcases
above high-water mark, he rounded the little promontory and made for the fire.
The recollection of the night when he had first approached it came upon him,
and increased his exultation.  How different a man was he now from then!
Passing up the sand, he saw the stakes which he had directed Frere to cut
whiten in the moonshine.  His officer worked for him!  In his own brain alone
lay the secret of escape!  He--Rufus Dawes--the scarred, degraded "prisoner",
could alone get these three beings back to civilization.
Did he refuse to aid them, they would for ever remain in that prison,
where he had so long suffered.  The tables were turned--he had become a gaoler!
He had gained the fire before the solitary watcher there heard his footsteps,
and spread his hands to the blaze in silence.  He felt as Frere
would have felt, had their positions been reversed, disdainful of the man
who had stopped at home.

Frere, starting, cried, "It is you!  Have you succeeded?"

Rufus Dawes nodded.

"What!  Did you catch them?"

"There are four carcases down by the rocks.  You can have meat
for breakfast to-morrow!"

The child, at the sound of the voice, came running down from the hut.
"Oh, Mr. Dawes!  I am so glad!  We were beginning to despair--mamma and I."

Dawes snatched her from the ground, and bursting into a joyous laugh,
swung her into the air.  "Tell me," he cried, holding up the child
with two dripping arms above him, "what you will do for me
if I bring you and mamma safe home again?"

"Give you a free pardon," says Sylvia, "and papa shall make you his servant!"
Frere burst out laughing at this reply, and Dawes, with a choking sensation
in his throat, put the child upon the ground and walked away.

This was in truth all he could hope for.  All his scheming, all his courage,
all his peril, would but result in the patronage of a great man
like Major Vickers.  His heart, big with love, with self-denial,
and with hopes of a fair future, would have this flattering unction laid to it.
He had performed a prodigy of skill and daring, and for his reward
he was to be made a servant to the creatures he had protected.
Yet what more could a convict expect?  Sylvia saw how deeply
her unconscious hand had driven the iron, and ran up to the man
she had wounded.  "And, Mr. Dawes, remember that I shall love you always."
The convict, however, his momentary excitement over, motioned her away;
and she saw him stretch himself wearily under the shadow of a rock.




CHAPTER XV.

THE CORACLE.



In the morning, however, Rufus Dawes was first at work, and made no allusion
to the scene of the previous evening.  He had already skinned one of the goats,
and he directed Frere to set to work upon another.  "Cut down the rump
to the hock, and down the brisket to the knee," he said.  "I want the hides
as square as possible." By dint of hard work they got the four goats skinned,
and the entrails cleaned ready for twisting, by breakfast time;
and having broiled some of the flesh, made a hearty meal.  Mrs. Vickers
being no better, Dawes went to see her, and seemed to have made friends again
with Sylvia, for he came out of the hut with the child's hand in his.
Frere, who was cutting the meat in long strips to dry in the sun,
saw this, and it added fresh fuel to the fire in his unreasonable envy
and jealousy.  However, he said nothing, for his enemy had not yet shown him
how the boat was to be made.  Before midday, however, he was a partner
in the secret, which, after all, was a very simple one.

Rufus Dawes took two of the straightest and most tapered
of the celery-top pines which Frere had cut on the previous day,
and lashed them tightly together, with the butts outwards.  He thus produced
a spliced stick about twelve feet long.  About two feet from either end
he notched the young tree until he could bend the extremities upwards;
and having so bent them, he secured the bent portions in their places
by means of lashings of raw hide.  The spliced trees now presented
a rude outline of the section of a boat, having the stem, keel, and stern
all in one piece.  This having been placed lengthwise between the stakes,
four other poles, notched in two places, were lashed from stake to stake,
running crosswise to the keel, and forming the knees.  Four saplings
were now bent from end to end of the upturned portions of the keel
that represented stem and stern.  Two of these four were placed above,
as gunwales; two below as bottom rails.  At each intersection the sticks
were lashed firmly with fishing line.  The whole framework being complete,
the stakes were drawn out, and there lay upon the ground the skeleton
of a boat eight feet long by three broad.

Frere, whose hands were blistered and sore, would fain have rested;
but the convict would not hear of it.  "Let us finish," he said
regardless of his own fatigue; "the skins will be dry if we stop."

"I can work no more," says Frere sulkily; "I can't stand.
You've got muscles of iron, I suppose.  I haven't."

"They made me work when I couldn't stand, Maurice Frere.  It is wonderful
what spirit the cat gives a man.  There's nothing like work
to get rid of aching muscles--so they used to tell me."

"Well, what's to be done now?"

"Cover the boat.  There, you can set the fat to melt, and sew
these hides together.  Two and two, do you see?  and then sew the pair
at the necks.  There is plenty of catgut yonder."

"Don't talk to me as if I was a dog!" says Frere suddenly.
"Be civil, can't you."

But the other, busily trimming and cutting at the projecting pieces of sapling,
made no reply.  It is possible that he thought the fatigued lieutenant
beneath his notice.  About an hour before sundown the hides were ready,
and Rufus Dawes, having in the meantime interlaced the ribs of the skeleton
with wattles, stretched the skins over it, with the hairy side inwards.
Along the edges of this covering he bored holes at intervals,
and passing through these holes thongs of twisted skin, he drew the whole
to the top rail of the boat.  One last precaution remained.
Dipping the pannikin into the melted tallow, he plentifully anointed the seams
of the sewn skins.  The boat, thus turned topsy-turvy, looked like
a huge walnut shell covered with red and reeking hide, or the skull
of some Titan who had been scalped.  "There!" cried Rufus Dawes, triumphant.
"Twelve hours in the sun to tighten the hides, and she'll swim like a duck."

The next day was spent in minor preparations.  The jerked goat-meat
was packed securely into as small a compass as possible.  The rum barrel
was filled with water, and water bags were improvised out of portions
of the intestines of the goats.  Rufus Dawes, having filled these last
with water, ran a wooden skewer through their mouths, and twisted it tight,
tourniquet fashion.  He also stripped cylindrical pieces of bark,
and having sewn each cylinder at the side, fitted to it a bottom
of the same material, and caulked the seams with gum and pine-tree resin.
Thus four tolerable buckets were obtained.  One goatskin yet remained,
and out of that it was determined to make a sail.  "The currents are strong,"
said Rufus Dawes, "and we shall not be able to row far with such oars
as we have got.  If we get a breeze it may save our lives."
It was impossible to "step" a mast in the frail basket structure,
but this difficulty was overcome by a simple contrivance.
From thwart to thwart two poles were bound, and the mast,
lashed between these poles with thongs of raw hide, was secured by shrouds
of twisted fishing line running fore and aft.  Sheets of bark were placed
at the bottom of the craft, and made a safe flooring.  It was late
in the afternoon on the fourth day when these preparations were completed,
and it was decided that on the morrow they should adventure the journey.
"We will coast down to the Bar," said Rufus Dawes, "and wait for the slack
of the tide.  I can do no more now."

Sylvia, who had seated herself on a rock at a little distance,
called to them.  Her strength was restored by the fresh meat,
and her childish spirits had risen with the hope of safety.
The mercurial little creature had wreathed seaweed about her head,
and holding in her hand a long twig decorated with a tuft of leaves
to represent a wand, she personified one of the heroines of her books.

"I am the Queen of the Island," she said merrily, "and you are
my obedient subjects.  Pray, Sir Eglamour, is the boat ready?"

"It is, your Majesty," said poor Dawes.

"Then we will see it.  Come, walk in front of me.  I won't ask you
to rub your nose upon the ground, like Man Friday, because that would be
uncomfortable.  Mr. Frere, you don't play?"

"Oh, yes!" says Frere, unable to withstand the charming pout
that accompanied the words.  "I'll play.  What am I to do?"

"You must walk on this side, and be respectful.  Of course it is only Pretend,
you know," she added, with a quick consciousness of Frere's conceit.
"Now then, the Queen goes down to the Seashore surrounded by her Nymphs!
There is no occasion to laugh, Mr. Frere.  Of course, Nymphs are
very different from you, but then we can't help that."

Marching in this pathetically ridiculous fashion across the sand,
they halted at the coracle.  "So that is the boat!" says the Queen,
fairly surprised out of her assumption of dignity.  "You are a Wonderful Man,
Mr. Dawes!"

Rufus Dawes smiled sadly.  "It is very simple."

"Do you call this simple?" says Frere, who in the general joy
had shaken off a portion of his sulkiness.  "By George, I don't!
This is ship-building with a vengeance, this is.  There's no scheming
about this--it's all sheer hard work."

"Yes!" echoed Sylvia, "sheer hard work--sheer hard work by good Mr. Dawes!"
And she began to sing a childish chant of triumph, drawing lines and letters
in the sand the while, with the sceptre of the Queen.

"Good Mr. Dawes!
Good Mr. Dawes!
This is the work of Good Mr. Dawes!"

Maurice could not resist a sneer.

"See-saw, Margery Daw,
Sold her bed, and lay upon straw!"

said he.

"Good Mr. Dawes!" repeated Sylvia.  "Good Mr. Dawes!  Why shouldn't I say it?
You are disagreeable, sir.  I won't play with you any more,"
and she went off along the sand.

"Poor little child," said Rufus Dawes.  "You speak too harshly to her."

Frere--now that the boat was made--had regained his self-confidence.
Civilization seemed now brought sufficiently close to him
to warrant his assuming the position of authority to which his social position
entitled him.  "One would think that a boat had never been built before
to hear her talk," he said.  "If this washing-basket had been one
of my old uncle's three-deckers, she couldn't have said much more.
By the Lord!" he added, with a coarse laugh, "I ought to have a natural talent
for ship-building; for if the old villain hadn't died when he did,
I should have been a ship-builder myself."

Rufus Dawes turned his back at the word "died", and busied himself
with the fastenings of the hides.  Could the other have seen his face,
he would have been struck by its sudden pallor.

"Ah!" continued Frere, half to himself, and half to his companion,
"that's a sum of money to lose, isn't it?"

"What do you mean?" asked the convict, without turning his face.

"Mean!  Why, my good fellow, I should have been left a quarter of a million
of money, but the old hunks who was going to give it to me died
before he could alter his will, and every shilling went to a scapegrace son,
who hadn't been near the old man for years.  That's the way of the world,
isn't it?"

Rufus Dawes, still keeping his face away, caught his breath
as if in astonishment, and then, recovering himself, he said in a harsh voice,
"A fortunate fellow--that son!"

"Fortunate!" cries Frere, with another oath.  "Oh yes, he was fortunate!
He was burnt to death in the Hydaspes, and never heard of his luck.
His mother has got the money, though.  I never saw a shilling of it."
And then, seemingly displeased with himself for having allowed his tongue
to get the better of his dignity, he walked away to the fire,
musing, doubtless, on the difference between Maurice Frere,
with a quarter of a million, disporting himself in the best society
that could be procured, with command of dog-carts, prize-fighters,
and gamecocks galore; and Maurice Frere, a penniless lieutenant,
marooned on the barren coast of Macquarie Harbour, and acting as boat-builder
to a runaway convict.

Rufus Dawes was also lost in reverie.  He leant upon the gunwale
of the much-vaunted boat, and his eyes were fixed upon the sea,
weltering golden in the sunset, but it was evident that he saw nothing
of the scene before him.  Struck dumb by the sudden intelligence
of his fortune, his imagination escaped from his control,
and fled away to those scenes which he had striven so vainly to forget.
He was looking far away--across the glittering harbour and the wide sea
beyond it--looking at the old house at Hampstead, with its well-remembered
gloomy garden.  He pictured himself escaped from this present peril,
and freed from the sordid thraldom which so long had held him.
He saw himself returning, with some plausible story of his wanderings,
to take possession of the wealth which was his--saw himself living once more,
rich, free, and respected, in the world from which he had been
so long an exile.  He saw his mother's sweet pale face, the light
of a happy home circle.  He saw himself--received with tears of joy
and marvelling affection--entering into this home circle as one risen
from the dead.  A new life opened radiant before him, and he was lost
in the contemplation of his own happiness.

So absorbed was he that he did not hear the light footstep
of the child across the sand.  Mrs. Vickers, having been told of the success
which had crowned the convict's efforts, had overcome her weakness
so far as to hobble down the beach to the boat, and now, heralded by Sylvia,
approached, leaning on the arm of Maurice Frere.

"Mamma has come to see the boat, Mr. Dawes!" cries Sylvia,
but Dawes did not hear.

The child reiterated her words, but still the silent figure did not reply.

"Mr. Dawes!" she cried again, and pulled him by the coat-sleeve.

The touch aroused him, and looking down, he saw the pretty,
thin face upturned to his.  Scarcely conscious of what he did,
and still following out the imagining which made him free, wealthy,
and respected, he caught the little creature in his arms--as he might have
caught his own daughter--and kissed her.  Sylvia said nothing;
but Mr. Frere--arrived, by his chain of reasoning, at quite another conclusion
as to the state of affairs--was astonished at the presumption of the man.
The lieutenant regarded himself as already reinstated in his old position,
and with Mrs. Vickers on his arm, reproved the apparent insolence
of the convict as freely as he would have done had they both been
at his own little kingdom of Maria Island.  "You insolent beggar!"
he cried.  "Do you dare!  Keep your place, sir!"

The sentence recalled Rufus Dawes to reality.  His place was that of a convict.
What business had he with tenderness for the daughter of his master?
Yet, after all he had done, and proposed to do, this harsh judgment upon him
seemed cruel.  He saw the two looking at the boat he had built.
He marked the flush of hope on the cheek of the poor lady,
and the full-blown authority that already hardened the eye of Maurice Frere,
and all at once he understood the result of what he had done.
He had, by his own act, given himself again to bondage.  As long as escape
was impracticable, he had been useful, and even powerful.
Now he had pointed out the way of escape, he had sunk into the beast of burden
once again.  In the desert he was "Mr." Dawes, the saviour;
in civilized life he would become once more Rufus Dawes, the ruffian,
the prisoner, the absconder.  He stood mute, and let Frere point out
the excellences of the craft in silence; and then, feeling that
the few words of thanks uttered by the lady were chilled by her consciousness
of the ill-advised freedom he had taken with the child, he turned on his heel,
and strode up into the bush.

"A queer fellow," said Frere, as Mrs. Vickers followed the retreating figure
with her eyes.  "Always in an ill temper." "Poor man!  He has behaved
very kindly to us," said Mrs. Vickers.  Yet even she felt the change
of circumstance, and knew that, without any reason she could name,
her blind trust and hope in the convict who had saved their lives
had been transformed into a patronizing kindliness which was
quite foreign to esteem or affection.

"Come, let us have some supper," says Frere.  "The last we shall eat here,
I hope.  He will come back when his fit of sulks is over."

But he did not come back, and, after a few expressions of wonder
at his absence, Mrs. Vickers and her daughter, rapt in the hopes and fears
of the morrow, almost forgot that he had left them.  With marvellous credulity
they looked upon the terrible stake they were about to play for as already won.
The possession of the boat seemed to them so wonderful,
that the perils of the voyage they were to make in it were altogether
lost sight of.  As for Maurice Frere, he was rejoiced that the convict
was out of the way.  He wished that he was out of the way altogether.




CHAPTER XVI.

THE WRITING ON THE SAND.



Having got out of eye-shot of the ungrateful creatures he had befriended,
Rufus Dawes threw himself upon the ground in an agony of mingled rage
and regret.  For the first time for six years he had tasted the happiness
of doing good, the delight of self-abnegation.  For the first time
for six years he had broken through the selfish misanthropy
he had taught himself.  And this was his reward!  He had held his temper
in check, in order that it might not offend others.  He had banished
the galling memory of his degradation, lest haply some shadow of it might seem
to fall upon the fair child whose lot had been so strangely cast with his.
He had stifled the agony he suffered, lest its expression should give pain
to those who seemed to feel for him.  He had forborne retaliation,
when retaliation would have been most sweet.  Having all these years waited
and watched for a chance to strike his persecutors, he had held his hand
now that an unlooked-for accident had placed the weapon of destruction
in his grasp.  He had risked his life, forgone his enmities,
almost changed his nature--and his reward was cold looks and harsh words,
so soon as his skill had paved the way to freedom.  This knowledge
coming upon him while the thrill of exultation at the astounding news
of his riches yet vibrated in his brain, made him grind his teeth with rage
at his own hard fate.  Bound by the purest and holiest of ties--the affection
of a son to his mother--he had condemned himself to social death,
rather than buy his liberty and life by a revelation which would shame
the gentle creature whom he loved.  By a strange series of accidents,
fortune had assisted him to maintain the deception he had practised.
His cousin had not recognized him.  The very ship in which he was believed
to have sailed had been lost with every soul on board.  His identity
had been completely destroyed--no link remained which could connect
Rufus Dawes, the convict, with Richard Devine, the vanished heir
to the wealth of the dead ship-builder.

Oh, if he had only known!  If, while in the gloomy prison,
distracted by a thousand fears, and weighed down by crushing evidence
of circumstance, he had but guessed that death had stepped between
Sir Richard and his vengeance, he might have spared himself the sacrifice
he had made.  He had been tried and condemned as a nameless sailor,
who could call no witnesses in his defence, and give no particulars
as to his previous history.  It was clear to him now that he might have
adhered to his statement of ignorance concerning the murder,
locked in his breast the name of the murderer, and have yet been free.
Judges are just, but popular opinion is powerful, and it was not impossible
that Richard Devine, the millionaire, would have escaped the fate
which had overtaken Rufus Dawes, the sailor.  Into his calculations
in the prison--when, half-crazed with love, with terror, and despair,
he had counted up his chances of life--the wild supposition that he had
even then inherited the wealth of the father who had disowned him,
had never entered.  The knowledge of that fact would have altered
the whole current of his life, and he learnt it for the first time now--
too late.  Now, lying prone upon the sand; now, wandering aimlessly
up and down among the stunted trees that bristled white beneath
the mist-barred moon; now, sitting--as he had sat in the prison long ago--
with the head gripped hard between his hands, swaying his body to and fro,
he thought out the frightful problem of his bitter life.  Of little use
was the heritage that he had gained.  A convict-absconder,
whose hands were hard with menial service, and whose back was scarred
with the lash, could never be received among the gently nurtured.
Let him lay claim to his name and rights, what then?  He was a convicted felon,
and his name and rights had been taken from him by the law.
Let him go and tell Maurice Frere that he was his lost cousin.
He would be laughed at.  Let him proclaim aloud his birth and innocence,
and the convict-sheds would grin, and the convict overseer set him
to harder labour.  Let him even, by dint of reiteration,
get his wild story believed, what would happen?  If it was heard in England--
after the lapse of years, perhaps--that a convict in the chain-gang
in Macquarie Harbour--a man held to be a murderer, and whose convict career
was one long record of mutiny and punishment--claimed to be the heir
to an English fortune, and to own the right to dispossess staid and worthy
English folk of their rank and station, with what feeling
would the announcement be received?  Certainly not with a desire to redeem
this ruffian from his bonds and place him in the honoured seat
of his dead father.  Such intelligence would be regarded as a calamity,
an unhappy blot upon a fair reputation, a disgrace to an honoured
and unsullied name.  Let him succeed, let him return again to the mother
who had by this time become reconciled, in a measure, to his loss;
he would, at the best, be to her a living shame, scarcely less degrading
than that which she had dreaded.

But success was almost impossible.  He did not dare to retrace his steps
through the hideous labyrinth into which he had plunged.  Was he to show
his scarred shoulders as a proof that he was a gentleman and an innocent man?
Was he to relate the nameless infamies of Macquarie Harbour as a proof
that he was entitled to receive the hospitalities of the generous,
and to sit, a respected guest, at the tables of men of refinement?
Was he to quote the horrible slang of the prison-ship, and retail
the filthy jests of the chain-gang and the hulks, as a proof
that he was a fit companion for pure-minded women and innocent children?
Suppose even that he could conceal the name of the real criminal,
and show himself guiltless of the crime for which he had been condemned,
all the wealth in the world could not buy back that blissful ignorance
of evil which had once been his.  All the wealth in the world
could not purchase the self-respect which had been cut out of him by the lash,
or banish from his brain the memory of his degradation.

For hours this agony of thought racked him.  He cried out as though
with physical pain, and then lay in a stupor, exhausted with actual
physical suffering.  It was hopeless to think of freedom and of honour.
Let him keep silence, and pursue the life fate had marked out for him.
He would return to bondage.  The law would claim him as an absconder,
and would mete out to him such punishment as was fitting.
Perhaps he might escape severest punishment, as a reward for his exertions
in saving the child.  He might consider himself fortunate if such was permitted
to him.  Fortunate!  Suppose he did not go back at all, but wandered away
into the wilderness and died?  Better death than such a doom as his.
Yet need he die?  He had caught goats, he could catch fish.
He could build a hut.  In here was, perchance, at the deserted settlement
some remnant of seed corn that, planted, would give him bread.
He had built a boat, he had made an oven, he had fenced in a hut.
Surely he could contrive to live alone savage and free.  Alone!
He had contrived all these marvels alone!  Was not the boat he himself
had built below upon the shore?  Why not escape in her, and leave to their fate
the miserable creatures who had treated him with such ingratitude?

The idea flashed into his brain, as though someone had spoken the words
into his ear.  Twenty strides would place him in possession of the boat,
and half an hour's drifting with the current would take him beyond pursuit.
Once outside the Bar, he would make for the westward, in the hopes
of falling in with some whaler.  He would doubtless meet with one
before many days, and he was well supplied with provision and water
in the meantime.  A tale of shipwreck would satisfy the sailors,
and--he paused--he had forgotten that the rags which he wore would betray him.
With an exclamation of despair, he started from the posture
in which he was lying.  He thrust out his hands to raise himself,
and his fingers came in contact with something soft.  He had been lying
at the foot of some loose stones that were piled cairnwise beside
a low-growing bush; and the object that he had touched was protruding
from beneath these stones.  He caught it and dragged it forth.
It was the shirt of poor Bates.  With trembling hands he tore away the stones,
and pulled forth the rest of the garments.  They seemed as though
they had been left purposely for him.  Heaven had sent him
the very disguise he needed.

The night had passed during his reverie, and the first faint streaks of dawn
began to lighten in the sky.  Haggard and pale, he rose to his feet,
and scarcely daring to think about what he proposed to do,
ran towards the boat.  As he ran, however, the voice that he had heard
encouraged him.  "Your life is of more importance than theirs.
They will die, but they have been ungrateful and deserve death.
You will escape out of this Hell, and return to the loving heart
who mourns you.  You can do more good to mankind than by saving the lives
of these people who despise you.  Moreover, they may not die.
They are sure to be sent for.  Think of what awaits you when you return--
an absconded convict!"

He was within three feet of the boat, when he suddenly checked himself,
and stood motionless, staring at the sand with as much horror
as though he saw there the Writing which foretold the doom of Belshazzar.
He had come upon the sentence traced by Sylvia the evening before,
and glittering in the low light of the red sun suddenly risen from out the sea,
it seemed to him that the letters had shaped themselves at his very feet,

GOOD MR. DAWES.

"Good Mr. Dawes"!  What a frightful reproach there was to him in that
simple sentence!  What a world of cowardice, baseness, and cruelty,
had not those eleven letters opened to him!  He heard the voice of the child
who had nursed him, calling on him to save her.  He saw her at that instant
standing between him and the boat, as she had stood when she held out to him
the loaf, on the night of his return to the settlement.

He staggered to the cavern, and, seizing the sleeping Frere by the arm,
shook him violently.  "Awake!  awake!" he cried, "and let us leave this place!"
Frere, starting to his feet, looked at the white face and bloodshot eyes
of the wretched man before him with blunt astonishment.  "What's the matter
with you, man?" he said.  "You look as if you'd seen a ghost!"

At the sound of his voice Rufus Dawes gave a long sigh,
and drew his hand across his eyes.

"Come, Sylvia!" shouted Frere.  "It's time to get up.  I am ready to go!"

The sacrifice was complete.  The convict turned away, and
two great glistening tears rolled down his rugged face, and fell upon the sand.




CHAPTER XVII.

AT SEA.



An hour after sunrise, the frail boat, which was the last hope
of these four human beings, drifted with the outgoing current
towards the mouth of the harbour.  When first launched she had come
nigh swamping, being overloaded, and it was found necessary
to leave behind a great portion of the dried meat.  With what pangs
this was done can be easily imagined, for each atom of food seemed
to represent an hour of life.  Yet there was no help for it.  As Frere said,
it was "neck or nothing with them".  They must get away at all hazards.

That evening they camped at the mouth of the Gates, Dawes being afraid
to risk a passage until the slack of the tide, and about ten o'clock
at night adventured to cross the Bar.  The night was lovely, and the sea calm.
It seemed as though Providence had taken pity on them; for,
notwithstanding the insecurity of the craft and the violence of the breakers,
the dreaded passage was made with safety.  Once, indeed, when they had
just entered the surf, a mighty wave, curling high above them,
seemed about to overwhelm the frail structure of skins and wickerwork;
but Rufus Dawes, keeping the nose of the boat to the sea,
and Frere baling with his hat, they succeeded in reaching deep water.
A great misfortune, however, occurred.  Two of the bark buckets,
left by some unpardonable oversight uncleated, were washed overboard,
and with them nearly a fifth of their scanty store of water.
In the face of the greater peril, the accident seemed trifling; and as,
drenched and chilled, they gained the open sea, they could not but admit
that fortune had almost miraculously befriended them.

They made tedious way with their rude oars; a light breeze from the north-west
sprang up with the dawn, and, hoisting the goat-skin sail,
they crept along the coast.  It was resolved that the two men should keep watch
and watch; and Frere for the second time enforced his authority
by giving the first watch to Rufus Dawes.  "I am tired," he said,
"and shall sleep for a little while."
 
Rufus Dawes, who had not slept for two nights, and who had done
all the harder work, said nothing.  He had suffered so much
during the last two days that his senses were dulled to pain.

Frere slept until late in the afternoon, and, when he woke,
found the boat still tossing on the sea, and Sylvia and her mother
both seasick.  This seemed strange to him.  Sea-sickness appeared to be
a malady which belonged exclusively to civilization.  Moodily watching
the great green waves which curled incessantly between him and the horizon,
he marvelled to think how curiously events had come about.  A leaf had,
as it were, been torn out of his autobiography.  It seemed a lifetime
since he had done anything but moodily scan the sea or shore.  Yet,
on the morning of leaving the settlement, he had counted the notches
on a calendar-stick he carried, and had been astonished to find them
but twenty-two in number.  Taking out his knife, he cut two nicks
in the wicker gunwale of the coracle.  That brought him to twenty-four days.
The mutiny had taken place on the 13th of January; it was now
the 6th of February.  "Surely," thought he, "the Ladybird might have returned
by this time." There was no one to tell him that the Ladybird had been driven
into Port Davey by stress of weather, and detained there for seventeen days.

That night the wind fell, and they had to take to their oars.
Rowing all night, they made but little progress, and Rufus Dawes suggested
that they should put in to the shore and wait until the breeze sprang up.
But, upon getting under the lee of a long line of basaltic rocks
which rose abruptly out of the sea, they found the waves breaking furiously
upon a horseshoe reef, six or seven miles in length.  There was nothing for it
but to coast again.  They coasted for two days, without a sign of a sail,
and on the third day a great wind broke upon them from the south-east,
and drove them back thirty miles.  The coracle began to leak,
and required constant bailing.  What was almost as bad, the rum cask,
that held the best part of their water, had leaked also, and was now
half empty.  They caulked it, by cutting out the leak, and then
plugging the hole with linen.

"It's lucky we ain't in the tropics," said Frere.  Poor Mrs. Vickers,
lying in the bottom of the boat, wrapped in her wet shawl,
and chilled to the bone with the bitter wind, had not the heart to speak.
Surely the stifling calm of the tropics could not be worse
than this bleak and barren sea.

The position of the four poor creatures was now almost desperate.
Mrs. Vickers, indeed, seemed completely prostrated; and it was evident that,
unless some help came, she could not long survive the continued exposure
to the weather.  The child was in somewhat better case.  Rufus Dawes
had wrapped her in his woollen shirt, and, unknown to Frere,
had divided with her daily his allowance of meat.  She lay in his arms
at night, and in the day crept by his side for shelter and protection.
As long as she was near him she felt safe.  They spoke little to each other,
but when Rufus Dawes felt the pressure of her tiny hand in his,
or sustained the weight of her head upon his shoulder, he almost forgot
the cold that froze him, and the hunger that gnawed him.

So two more days passed, and yet no sail.  On the tenth day
after their departure from Macquarie Harbour they came to the end
of their provisions.  The salt water had spoiled the goat-meat,
and soaked the bread into a nauseous paste.  The sea was still running high,
and the wind, having veered to the north, was blowing with increased violence.
The long low line of coast that stretched upon their left hand
was at times obscured by a blue mist.  The water was the colour of mud,
and the sky threatened rain.  The wretched craft to which they had
entrusted themselves was leaking in four places.  If caught in one
of the frequent storms which ravaged that iron-bound coast,
she could not live an hour.  The two men, wearied, hungry, and cold,
almost hoped for the end to come quickly.  To add to their distress,
the child was seized with fever.  She was hot and cold by turns,
and in the intervals of moaning talked deliriously.  Rufus Dawes, holding her
in his arms, watched the suffering he was unable to alleviate
with a savage despair at his heart.  Was she to die after all?

So another day and night passed, and the eleventh morning saw the boat
yet alive, rolling in the trough of the same deserted sea.
The four exiles lay in her almost without breath.

All at once Dawes uttered a cry, and, seizing the sheet, put the
clumsy craft about.  "A sail!  a sail!" he cried.  "Do you not see her?"

Frere's hungry eyes ranged the dull water in vain.

"There is no sail, fool!" he said.  "You mock us!"

The boat, no longer following the line of the coast, was running
nearly due south, straight into the great Southern Ocean.
Frere tried to wrest the thong from the hand of the convict,
and bring the boat back to her course.  "Are you mad?" he asked,
in fretful terror, "to run us out to sea?"

"Sit down!" returned the other, with a menacing gesture, and staring across
the grey water.  "I tell you I see a sail!"

Frere, overawed by the strange light which gleamed in the eyes
of his companion, shifted sulkily back to his place.  "Have your own way,"
he said, "madman!  It serves me right for putting off to sea
in such a devil's craft as this!"

After all, what did it matter?  As well be drowned in mid-ocean
as in sight of land.

The long day wore out, and no sail appeared.  The wind freshened
towards evening, and the boat, plunging clumsily on the long brown waves,
staggered as though drunk with the water she had swallowed,
for at one place near the bows the water ran in and out as through a slit
in a wine skin.  The coast had altogether disappeared, and the huge ocean--
vast, stormy, and threatening--heaved and hissed all around them.
It seemed impossible that they should live until morning.  But Rufus Dawes,
with his eyes fixed on some object visible alone to him, hugged the child
in his arms, and drove the quivering coracle into the black waste
of night and sea.  To Frere, sitting sullenly in the bows,
the aspect of this grim immovable figure, with its back-blown hair
and staring eyes, had in it something supernatural and horrible. He began
to think that privation and anxiety had driven the unhappy convict mad.

Thinking and shuddering over his fate, he fell--as it seemed to him--
into a momentary sleep, in the midst of which someone called to him.
He started up, with shaking knees and bristling hair.  The day had broken,
and the dawn, in one long pale streak of sickly saffron,
lay low on the left hand.  Between this streak of saffron-coloured light
and the bows of the boat gleamed for an instant a white speck.

"A sail!  a sail!" cried Rufus Dawes, a wild light gleaming in his eyes,
and a strange tone vibrating in his voice.  "Did I not tell you
that I saw a sail?"

Frere, utterly confounded, looked again, with his heart in his mouth,
and again did the white speck glimmer.  For an instant he felt almost safe,
and then a blanker despair than before fell upon him.  From the distance
at which she was, it was impossible for the ship to sight the boat.

"They will never see us!" he cried.  "Dawes--Dawes!  Do you hear?
They will never see us!"

Rufus Dawes started as if from a trance.  Lashing the sheet to the pole
which served as a gunwale, he laid the sleeping child by her mother,
and tearing up the strip of bark on which he had been sitting,
moved to the bows of the boat.

"They will see this!  Tear up that board!  So!  Now, place it thus
across the bows.  Hack off that sapling end!  Now that dry twist of osier!
Never mind the boat, man; we can afford to leave her now.
Tear off that outer strip of hide.  See, the wood beneath is dry!
Quick--you are so slow."

"What are you going to do?" cried Frere, aghast, as the convict tore up
all the dry wood he could find, and heaped it on the sheet of bark
placed on the bows.

"To make a fire!  See!"

Frere began to comprehend.  "I have three matches left," he said,
fumbling, with trembling fingers, in his pocket.  "I wrapped them in one
of the leaves of the book to keep them dry."

The word "book" was a new inspiration.  Rufus Dawes seized upon
the English History, which had already done such service,
tore out the drier leaves in the middle of the volume, and carefully added them
to the little heap of touchwood.

"Now, steady!"

The match was struck and lighted.  The paper, after a few obstinate curlings,
caught fire, and Frere, blowing the young flame with his breath,
the bark began to burn.  He piled upon the fire all that was combustible,
the hides began to shrivel, and a great column of black smoke
rose up over the sea.

"Sylvia!" cried Rufus Dawes.  "Sylvia!  My darling!  You are saved!"

She opened her blue eyes and looked at him, but gave no sign of recognition.
Delirium had hold of her, and in the hour of safety the child had forgotten
her preserver.  Rufus Dawes, overcome by this last cruel stroke of fortune,
sat down in the stern of the boat, with the child in his arms,
speechless.  Frere, feeding the fire, thought that the chance
he had so longed for had come.  With the mother at the point of death,
and the child delirious, who could testify to this hated convict's skilfulness?
No one but Mr. Maurice Frere, and Mr. Maurice Frere, as Commandant of convicts,
could not but give up an "absconder" to justice.

The ship changed her course, and came towards this strange fire
in the middle of the ocean.  The boat, the fore part of her blazing
like a pine torch, could not float above an hour.  The little group
of the convict and the child remained motionless.  Mrs. Vickers was lying
senseless, ignorant even of the approaching succour.

The ship--a brig, with American colours flying--came within hail of them.
Frere could almost distinguish figures on her deck.  He made his way aft
to where Dawes was sitting, unconscious, with the child in his arms,
and stirred him roughly with his foot.

"Go forward," he said, in tones of command, "and give the child to me."

Rufus Dawes raised his head, and, seeing the approaching vessel,
awoke to the consciousness of his duty.  With a low laugh,
full of unutterable bitterness, he placed the burden he had borne so tenderly
in the arms of the lieutenant, and moved to the blazing bows.  


          *          *          *          *          *          *


The brig was close upon them.  Her canvas loomed large and dusky,
shadowing the sea.  Her wet decks shone in the morning sunlight.
From her bulwarks peered bearded and eager faces, looking with astonishment
at this burning boat and its haggard company, alone on that barren
and stormy ocean.

Frere, with Sylvia in his arms, waited for her.



END OF BOOK THE SECOND






