BOOK 0
Project Gutenberg Australia



For the Term of His Natural Life by Marcus Clarke




DEDICATION

TO

SIR CHARLES GAVAN DUFFY

My Dear Sir Charles, I take leave to dedicate this work to you,
not merely because your nineteen years of political and literary life
in Australia render it very fitting that any work written
by a resident in the colonies, and having to do with the history
of past colonial days, should bear your name upon its dedicatory page;
but because the publication of my book is due to your advice
and encouragement.

The convict of fiction has been hitherto shown only at the beginning
or at the end of his career.   Either his exile has been the mysterious end
to his misdeeds, or he has appeared upon the scene to claim interest
by reason of an equally unintelligible love of crime acquired
during his experience in a penal settlement.  Charles Reade has drawn
the interior of a house of correction in England, and Victor Hugo
has shown how a French convict fares after the fulfilment of his sentence.
But no writer--so far as I am aware--has attempted to depict
the dismal condition of a felon during his term of transportation.

I have endeavoured in "His Natural Life" to set forth the working
and the results of an English system of transportation carefully considered
and carried out under official supervision; and to illustrate
in the manner best calculated, as I think, to attract general attention,
the inexpediency of again allowing offenders against the law to be
herded together in places remote from the wholesome influence
of public opinion, and to be submitted to a discipline which must
necessarily depend for its just administration upon the personal character
and temper of their gaolers.

Your critical faculty will doubtless find, in the construction
and artistic working of this book, many faults.  I do not think,
however, that you will discover any exaggerations.   Some of the events
narrated are doubtless tragic and terrible; but I hold it needful
to my purpose to record them, for they are events which have
actually occurred, and which, if the blunders which produced them
be repeated, must infallibly occur again.   It is true that
the British Government have ceased to deport the criminals of England,
but the method of punishment, of which that deportation was a part,
is still in existence.   Port Blair is a Port Arthur filled
with Indian-men instead of Englishmen; and, within the last year,
France has established, at New Caledonia, a penal settlement which will,
in the natural course of things, repeat in its annals the history
of Macquarie Harbour and of Norfolk Island.

With this brief preface I beg you to accept this work.
I would that its merits were equal either to your kindness or to my regard.

I am,
My dear Sir Charles,
Faithfully yours,
MARCUS CLARKE

THE PUBLIC LIBRARY, MELBOURNE






